the data center and AI buildout is going
to be extremely expensive. That's
starting to weigh on the market a little
bit.
>> There is an expectation that we'll start
to see a leveling out in MAG 7 earnings
growth rates.
>> I still think there's probably some room
to see more pullback.
>> New leadership can emerge or at least
challenge some of these tech leaders and
that to me is a very healthy stock
market. 6 12 months ago the fundamentals
looked better. We're more on bubble
watch than bubble call.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, looking for stability.
The weight of the global equity market
on Nvidia's shoulders as Target is
preparing to shine a light on a very
gloomy US consumer. President Trump is
inching even closer to naming the next
Fed chair. That decision just weeks
away.
>> Yeah. Speaking to our own Emry Hord, who
is still down in Washington DC.
President Trump saying, "I think I know
my choice. I'd love to get that guy
currently in there right out right now,
but people are holding me back." He also
talked about how occasionally it's good
to be politically correct. So you have
to wonder, is this sort of putting some
wind in the sales of Chris Waller or is
there somebody else who he thinks is the
more politically correct choice?
>> I had the same question. Who is the
politically correct choice? In the minds
of the president, in the mind of the
market, it's Governor Waller. He's
already at the Federal Reserve. Let's
go. Stand a call. Someone's sitting at
the Fed ready to cut rates. He's my guy.
In the minds of the president, what's a
politically correct choice? Right now,
according to Poly Market, uh Kevin
Hassid is the favorite with a 46% chance
and Chris Waller has a 19% chance. So, I
think that there might be some delta
between the politically correct choice
of President Trump and the politically
correct choice of markets. However,
Scott Bessett is very attenuated to what
the markets care about. So, how much is
he going to maybe move the needle here?
>> We'll catch up with Amar in about 10
minutes on this story in just a moment.
Need to talk about Nvidia as well.
Nvidia in the pro pre premarket just
about positive. Nvidia's had a really
really tough go of it over the last
month or so. Down about 12% or so from
the October high. Some high-profile
exits as well. Soft Bank sold its stake.
Peter Till's hedge fund sold its stake.
The stock's under pressure in a way it
hasn't been in a long time.
>> The Central Bank of Nvidia's decision
comes after the bell today. And I have
to say that the entire market is riding
on it. To me, the idea you pointed to
that 12% draw down that includes $630
billion dollars of market capitalization
evaporating from the from the global
tech sphere. And this raises a question
about how much they're able to underpin
the global rally and optimism around
growth. Ultimately, one person was
saying this is a so goes Nvidia, so goes
the market kind of report. It does feel
like they have a very high bar to cross.
And it raises a question going forward
about whether the people who've just
recently got out of Nvidia. We're just
getting out to get into something even
more ambitious or whether they're
getting out because getting out is
pretty good.
>> We've heard from their biggest clients,
the hyperscalers, their spending
intentions are up, not down. This should
be a good story to tell here. But the
way the market treats these earnings has
shifted and shifted marketkedly. The way
this market has treated this story has
shifted marketkedly as well. If you
think about the last 24 hours, we had a
deal, another announcement. This time I
think it was Nvidia Microsoft Anthropic.
Have a look at how those two stocks
performed yesterday. Microsoft down
2.7%. Nvidia down by 2.8%. Do you
remember not so long ago when you see a
deal like that, the stock was up 10, 15,
20%. That's not happening anymore.
Things have changed.
>> Yet people have gotten the joke. They
understand they're all in bed together.
So are they in bed going to a good place
or they in bed going downhill? And this
is sort of the question when you have
Enthropic getting a cash infusion from
both Microsoft and Nvidia for power
centers that'll be powered with NVIDIA
chips and with the Azure uh cloud
computing system of Microsoft. It raises
a question if one weak link goes down.
How much is the entire ecosystem
threatened that increasingly has come to
people's minds. Add uh tens upon tens of
billions of dollars of debt upon it.
Well, and you have yourself a minor
correction.
>> It's the main event later on this
afternoon. Nvidia in the pre-market up
by 3/4 of 1%. and an exclusive
conversation with Jensen and Ed Lello on
Bloomberg TV later on this evening. So
look out for that. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Julian Emanuel of
EverCore with stocks on their longest
slide since August. The former US
intelligence official Norman rule as the
US and Saudi Arabia deepen ties and the
Nokia CEO Justin Hotard on the company's
push to create the first 6G network. We
begin this out with stocks edging higher
as investors countdown to earnings from
Nvidia. Joining us now to discuss is
Bloomberg's Mandep Singh. Mandepid good
morning. Look, the stock story is not
great. Surely the earning story is going
to be okay.
>> Uh look, I mean the best way to frame it
is uh you know you were discussing about
hyperscaler capex. We know at the start
of the year the expectation was that
capex would grow 20% in 2026. Now it's
close to 40%. So from that perspective,
Nvidia numbers should be revised upwards
and uh you know everyone has talked
about building more uh gigawatts when it
comes to AI data center capacity whether
it's open AI or any of these
hyperscalers and the question that
investors will ask is how much is Nvidia
share in that gawatt buildout because uh
that's how they're going to generate you
know more revenue is if OpenAI builds 30
gawatt and they are they have to rely on
Nvidia's chips then there is no choice
but to pay Nvidia you know the higher
gross margins that they have commanded
so far whereas a Google told us
yesterday that Gemini 3 was trained
entirely on TPUs so from that
perspective they're not going to get
their cut uh in terms of what Google is
building uh around AI data centers so
that's the key question for me is how
much Nvidia manages to keep their share
going forward in this gigawatt buildout.
>> Andy Sink of Bloomberg Intelligence on
Nvidia. Those numbers dropping later on
this afternoon. Here's the view on Wall
Street so far this morning. Julian
Emanuel of EverOR calling for the S&P to
hit 7750 by the end of next year.
Writing the path to a bullish long-term
is often a series of volatile
uncomfortable short terms. This is one
of those times. Julian joins us now for
more. Julian, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Things have changed. Why have they
changed? What's behind this recent
shift? the way the market treats this
story.
>> It it's actually the the debt concerns
in our view again because and this is
inescapable and we talked about this a
number of times throughout the year. You
cannot get away from the comparisons to
the late 1990s in in many respects. And
when you think about the late 1990s, the
problem with the bursting of the bubble,
besides the fact that the Fed was hiking
in 1999, was the fact that a lot of the
buildout was financed by companies that
were incurring debt and had no revenues
on the other side. And because you've
seen this uh accelerating debt issuance,
um there is the worry that that is
coming back. and and we would say that's
actually a good rational worry.
>> Well, and it's a worry potentially to
buy. I mean, I guess that this goes to
the question of why what makes you so
bullish on an ongoing basis despite some
of the rhyming features of this
particular rally with respect to the
debt component.
>> Well, so a number of things again, the
macro backdrop is favorable. Okay, the
Fed is is going to be cutting. We're
going to have more stimulus whether we
get $2,000 in our pockets at some point
next year or not. We're going to have
more stimulus. And from a valuation
perspective, as much as angst as there
is, in fact, certainly in comparison to
the late 1990s, these names are I
wouldn't say cheap, but they're
certainly not expensive relative to
history, and they're not expensive
relative to their own history. And what
we've seen over the last several years
in a lot of them is they just mark time
going sideways. So earnings catch up,
devaluation, and that's an ongoing
process.
>> At the start of the sell-off, at the
start of November, it was very much what
you're talking about, a realization of
the debt component. It seems like the
tone has shifted over the past couple of
trading sessions to not just a tech
story, but to an everything story,
raising questions first about whether
the Fed is going to cut next month and
second whether the US economy is strong
enough to withstand some of the optimism
without that rate cut. How much do you
see that story continuing? The idea that
maybe the weakness under the hood is
part of what's pushing the story as much
as the debt overlay to artificial
intelligence. Well, a lot of it is the
fact that we simply haven't gotten data
for the last month and a half. And you
know, in the beginning of it, it was
okay, fine. The markets were were doing
well. You know, we're the uncertainty is
a positive, but then investors realize
that uncertainty is uncertainty and
should be discounted. You know, our
suspicion is is that over the next
number of weeks as we get back to
normalizing the data releases, people
will at least have something to anchor
on. And the question in terms of the
economy and which is certainly the
question that's the backdrop for
sustaining these valuations and of
course monetary policy is is the economy
okay with the slower speed of job
growth. you know, we think the the sort
of the monthly break even is somewhere
between 30 and 60,000 jobs. Um, is that
palatable? We think the answer
ultimately will be yes.
>> Julian, forgive me. It's almost like we
forgotten what it was like when we had
the data. When we had the data, people
questioned it all the time. They
questioned the quality of it. They
didn't like the payrolls data. In fact,
the payrolls data was super weak, even
if you believed in it. And I don't know
how relevant the equity market story was
to the payrolls data we've seen over the
last seven, eight months anyway. Well,
we have never put stock in in in the
monthly payrolls data. It's the weekly
jobless claims data that that's always
been high frequency importance and we've
been sort of calculating it back of the
envelope uh at Evercore ISI these week.
No,
>> it's you know steady as she goes.
230,000 every single week and I think
once that becomes transparent we're
going to see that again. Does it come
down to this the stock market what it
really wants the earning story that it's
already got but it wants the rate cuts
too and to get the rate cuts you need
the weak jobs data is that what it comes
down to look at 26 times you have to
have constant positive narrative stocks
are expensive stocks being expensive is
not a reason to sell the market uh you
know it can be a headwind as it is at
the current time when you have this
uncertainty but again ultimately to your
point, John, is that like earnings
revisions are just phenomenally strong.
The runway to next year in terms of
earnings growth is great. And and as I
look at it, our 7750 price target is
likely not going to uh imply any
multiple expansion, which makes me want
to mop my brow in in relief.
>> Well, mop your bow in relief or put a
higher multiple on the idea of bubble
territory. We're on bubble watch or
maybe bubble call or whatever you want
to use the word b- word that everyone
seems to be overusing these days. What
would it take in terms of Fed rate cuts
to get to your extreme bubble call, full
bubble, which you put at a 30% chance
currently for next year?
>> You'd probably need
four or five cuts in an economy. Well,
look, back it up. The fact is is that in
the last several weeks, both the
trajectory for growth and the trajectory
for inflation appear to be improving. We
took our number down to 2.7 on core PCE
for the end of next year. That's
certainly going to be sufficient enough
for the Fed to cut. We took our growth
number up to 1.9. Um and and frankly the
way the setup is right now there could
be upside to the growth number and
downside to the inflation number.
>> Julian it's good to see you an
optimistic take on a future. Julian
Emanuel Evore following a 4-day slide on
the S&P 500 futures near session highs
up a third of 1% later on this
afternoon. Earnings from Nvidia later on
this morning numbers from Target. Look
out for those numbers around 6:30
Eastern time. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Oh, heyra.
>> Hi, John. After Home Depot stumbled
yesterday, we are seeing shares of
Lowe's rising more than 5% after topping
earnings estimates for the third quarter
while net sales grew 3% yearonear.
Lowe's also raising its fullear sales
guidance as the company is updating its
outlook for operating results to reflect
ongoing uncertainty in the current
macroeconomic environment.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump says
he thinks he's identified his choice to
be the next chair of the Federal
Reserve. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant narrowed the pool of contenders
to current Fed Governors Christopher
Waller and Michelle Bowman, former Fed
Governor Kevin Walsh, White House
National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hasset, and Black Rockck's Rick Reer.
And in Europe, UK inflation fell for the
first time in 7 months. drop was driven
by energy prices rising by less than
they did a year ago. The data keeping
alive hopes the BOE will cut rates at
its next meeting. Traders are pricing in
an 80% chance of a cut next month. Let's
remember brief John
>> that decision on December 18th, some
good news for the UK for once. Yara,
thank you. Up next on the program,
choosing the next Fed chair.
>> We're getting closer to the end of the
year. Have you started the interviews
for the Fed chair?
>> I think I already know my choice. It's
nice to every once in a while go uh
politically correct, but we have we have
some great names.
>> And Marie joins us next from Washington
DC, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
4 day slide on the S&P 500. The longest
losing streak going back to August this
morning. A bounce up by 0.4% on the S&P
on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.5. Later on
this morning, about 14 minutes away, we
get numbers from Target. The numbers
yesterday from Home Depot, not great.
numbers from Lowe's just moments ago.
>> Yeah. And the numbers from Lowe's had
kind of a mixed feel. On one hand, their
crop sales for the third quarter were
below as expectations, but fullear
forecasts came in above expectations
with really gave people positivity.
Also, they have a new partnership with a
company that works with professional
contractors, which seems to be
bolstering some of their views as well.
They did talk about the hurricane
season, but still they're talking about
total sales for the full year of $86
billion. that is above where they had
previously seen that going forward in
general a much more optimistic tone than
what we saw over at Tok.
>> They've got a better story to tell this
morning. That's for sure. Because Home
Depot did not will target this is the
issue. It's a market that's looking for
a reaceleration, a pick up in economic
growth into year end and out the other
side. Is that what we're hearing from
these companies?
>> Yeah. Is it going to be the same story
from Target that the consumer is kind of
muddling through or is this going to be
the same kind of story as what we saw
from Home Depot and Lowe's? There's a
winner and there's a loser and there's a
question of market share consolidation.
Is this a question of Home Depot facing
a very difficult macroeconomic backdrop
or is this maybe losing share to Lowe's
or potentially the low lows uh team
doing a better job in managing
efficiencies? Are you going to see the
same kind of nuance with say Target
versus Walmart? That's one of the key
questions.
>> Target at 6:30 Eastern time. Walmart
numbers coming up tomorrow under
surveillance this morning. Let's talk
about the central bank choosing the next
Fed chair.
We're getting closer to the end of the
year. Have you started the interviews
for the Fed chair?
>> I think I already know my choice. We
have some surprising names and we have
some standard names that everybody's
talking about and we may we may go the
standard way. You know, it's nice to
every once in a while go uh politically
correct, but we have we have some great
names.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House nearing its final round of
interviews for the next Fed chair,
saying we might have a pick by
Christmas. and Marie asking a question
to the Oval yesterday. Join us now from
Washington for more. Am Marie, it feels
like we're getting closer.
>> It does feel like we're getting closer,
Jonathan. And we should say the
president immediately said to me when I
asked that question, yes, he started the
interviews and he already knows in his
mind who he has and then his glance and
his eyesight went right to his Treasury
Secretary who was sitting there on the
couch to his left and said, you know,
I'd like him, but he's happy at
Treasury. And then Scott Besset once
again said, "Yes, I'm not leaving my
post." And then Bessant clarified that
interviews will start to begin in
earnest and that they should be wrapping
this up before the end of the year. It
was also interesting, the Treasury
Secretary was asked about this last
night on Fox News and he said, "I will
not be the Fed chair." And then he sort
of turned it around with the president
playing koi with him all the time and
said, "You know, I think President
Donald J. Trump would make a great Fed
chair."
>> Isn't it super on brand? The crown
prince Muhammad bin Salman is in the
room alongside the president of the
United States. What do we ask? Questions
about the Federal Reserve.
>> I was thinking the same thing. Thank you
for representing us. Well, Anmirie, we
really appreciate it. Keep up the good
work.
>> AMH, what was the big takeaway on the
big Saudi meeting?
>> Well, also just to clarify before I got
to the Fed, I did ask about the
agreements going on between Riad and
Washington DC. And I also asked the
crown prince. One of the big takeaways
from that Oval Office meeting for the
business community is that he wants to
expand not 600 billion but $1 trillion
dollar in investment. And how do you do
that when oil prices continue to stay in
a range of $60 a barrel? And for more on
that, we're joined by former senior US
intelligence official Norman Rule right
here in the studio. Norman, thank you so
much for joining us this morning.
>> My pleasure. Good morning. You have
serious detail in regards to the
relationship between these two
countries. I would love to get your
answer because the crown prince, his
royal highness, actually ignored me when
I asked that. He wouldn't give me a
price. But can Saudi Arabia maintain
this level of investment where oil
prices are now?
>> I believe they can. But I think it's a
question of how long it will take them
to execute this investment. And that
answer will be over years. uh they did
not uh indicate yesterday how long how
many years it will uh be before these uh
agreements are uh are completely
fulfilled and I think we're probably
looking at a decade or more and that
really strikes to the heart of what this
meeting was all about. This was a
transformational agreement between the
two countries where the Saudis and the
Americans are investing in each other's
futures and in energy, artificial
intelligence, minerals, chemicals and
defense. And this will take a decade,
decades for this to play out. It's a
really transformational agreement.
>> It will take years because also looking
at the fact sheet, they use a lot of
words like commitments, memorandum of
understanding. A lot of what we heard
yesterday, we heard during President
Trump's trip to the Middle East in May.
If you're sitting in Saudi Arabia though
and you want to make investments, is it
challenging to do that with the United
States that runs on a four-year election
cycle? It can be, but I think we've seen
a lot of progress that has not yet made
it to the press. Uh over the last five
or six months, there has been an
intensive uh exchange of officials
between the two countries. Uh diplomats
have been working furiously to flesh out
the paperwork. Uh the F-35 announcement
is not something that occurred
yesterday, uh for example. And uh I know
the same thing has happened on nuclear
issues on uh uh on energy matters and
and on broad uh defensive uh military
industrialization issues for Saudi
Arabia. So I think we should look for
the next three to six months for
rollouts of American companies engaging
their counterparts on these issues. It's
going to be a very busy season for US
and Saudi engagement.
>> You mentioned the F-35s. There's also
this defense pact. The president
yesterday talked about Saudi becoming a
major non uh NATO ally. What does this
mean for the Israelis and the path to
normalization between these two
countries?
>> Well, being a major non-NATO US ally
does not bring a defensive component. It
doesn't mean we we come to a country's
aid necessarily in time of conflict.
Although truth in lending, I think it's
clear that if if Saudi Saudi Arabia were
ever attacked, the US would be there for
that country. Uh what this does it
allows Saudi Arabia expedited access to
equipment uh increased intelligence
sharing some participation in research
and development. A number of countries
in the region have this uh relationship
already and it was long overdue for for
Saudi Arabia uh in in in my in my case.
I think the Israelis are going to be
uncomfortable with this but it's a new
regional security architecture and uh I
think the region will have to adjust to
that architecture uh itself. In the Oval
Office yesterday, the president made
clear he had this conversation about
normalizing relations between Riad and
Jerusalem. Do you think that gets done
in Trump's term?
>> I think it's possible, but it's going to
be difficult. The uh issue remains Saudi
Arabia has made it very clear they will
normalize with normalize relations with
Israel when there is an irreversible
path to a two-state solution uh between
Israel and the Palestinian people. that
appears very unlikely at present. Uh and
the crown prince was very clear. He
wants to join the Abraham Accords when
that happens. Uh that does not appear
likely now. And to for that to happen,
we would not only need to see
significant political changes within
Israel, but serious serious uh uh
transformation among the Palestinian
leadership itself, which appears a long
way off at present.
>> I want to end on Iran. The crown prince
reportedly got this letter from the
Iranian president Masoud Pazasan before
he went to the United States. What do
you think was in that letter? Could
Saudi Arabia be at the table to
potentially facilitate talks between the
United States and Iran?
>> The crown prince was clear he would do
what is necessary to assist in
discussions. Uh right now my sense is
that the Iranians wish to have
engagement with the United States. But
uh the president I think is wise in not
seeking engagement just to have
engagement. You see if you're Iran and
you have engagement that automatically
raises your real supports the economy.
It helps the uh the government but it
doesn't actually produce a nuclear
agreement. My uh sense is the Trump
administration will seek engagement when
they believe the Iranians will are
serious about talks and they don't
believe the Iranians are serious at
present and they have the Trump
administration has many other fish to
fry.
>> Norm thank you so much for your time
this morning. That was of course Norman
Rule a former US senior intelligence
official. My big takeaway sitting here
Jonathan in Washington with Norm is that
when you look at the fact sheet it's a
lot of commitments.
Norm is spot on. This is going to be
years and a decade in the making.
>> AMH with the latest in Washington. And
Marie, my takeaway this morning is the
crude prices exactly where this
president wants it to be. Low 60s right
now down about 16% year to date.
>> How much is that part of the tacid
agreement behind the scenes? Because
there's a question around what the US
got in return for some of the pledges to
provide chips etc. If you want an answer
to that, some people have suggested, not
me, but some people have suggested take
a look at the oil price and how much it
has remained within this 50 to 70 band.
And that really is where it's going to
remain regardless of the geopolitics,
which really puts a lid on the potential
inflation coming from energy costs.
>> I'm not sure how happy the shell patch
is with these numbers, but that's a
different question altogether. Crude
this morning down about 1%, $60 and
about 13. Up next on the program, we'll
turn to the retailers in America and the
US consumer. Such Kadali of Forester
with target earnings just around the
corner. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. Lows rising on better than
expected numbers. That stock is up by
4%. Live from New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Let's take a peek. 4 day
slide on the S&P 500. 4 days of losses
amounting to almost a 4% decline from
all-time highs in the last month or so.
We bounced back this morning up by 38%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by46. On
the Russell, the small caps up by.56.
So, a bounce so far this morning. Let's
see if this sticks. In the bond market,
not much offset coming from the long end
of the curve. A bit of a debate on what
this might mean for the Federal Reserve
on the 2-year 357, but Lisa still firmly
in that range between 350 and 360 at the
front end of the curve.
>> You've seen a fluctuation over the past
week in terms of the Fed speak buffeting
around uh next month's Fed rate cut
expectations and the long end. I wonder
how much is the story you pointed to
yesterday about what's going on over at
the Bank of Japan and the idea that long
ends are rising there and how much
that's kicking around the long end of
the yield curve around the world. I also
wonder how much some of the longdated
issuance from some of the tech giants
also is creating perhaps a supply and
indigestion issue in for that particular
denomination. Nonetheless, to me, the
real question is what's driving the
selloff? Is it the Fed or is it tech
fears? I mean, last night at the dinner
table, people asked. They were like,
"What's causing this?"
>> What did you say? We all want to know.
>> I was like,
>> describe the Bremo household dinner.
>> I just, you know, took a bite was like,
"I'm sorry, I'm busy." No, I said, you
know, look, ultimately people don't
know. There could be just sort of this
concern about the debt. I'm sure all the
kids gla eyes glazed over. Then I said
it could be better. I've heard that one
before
>> and their eyes glazed over and then they
said, you know, please pass the Brussels
sprouts.
>> Does this week have the potential to
sort of reopen the door back towards
that meltup into year end that Santa
rally? Two things have the potential to
do that. The jobs report could unlock
that Fed debate for December 10th and
Nvidia after the closing bell could
unlock some of those fears about the AI
trade. Maybe just calm things down just
a touch.
>> Yeah. How much do they have to beat to
get people really excited again? Or have
we already seen the sort of pre-release
sell-off that sometimes happens
post-release? Right? We've already had
that 12% decline in Nvidia shares. Is
that setting up for just a wave of
positivity when they come out and they
say, "Actually, we do own the world.
Just pay us your money."
>> I mentioned this a little bit earlier.
Don't miss the conversation with Jensen
Wag, the Nvidia CEO, sitting down with
Bloomberg's Ed Madlo later on this
evening. As we count you down to the
opening bell, three hours to go. Let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Here's Danny with more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. put some more retailer
earnings to work. They were getting
target now, but also lows in the past
half hour. Shares are up 3.7% because
they did have a better third quarter
than expected, but maybe some of this is
about expectation settings. Shares sold
off yesterday with Home Depot. They're
down 11% year-to- date. Not to mention
for the full year, they did narrow their
outlook below the high end, saying that
the macroeconomic environment was
weighing on them. And they also see a
flat year for 2026. Elsewhere,
Constellation Energy, those shares also
higher by 3.2% getting a $1 billion
boost from the Department of Energy. The
government giving them a $1 billion loan
to help them reopen Three-Mile Island.
Chris Wright, the uh energy head over in
the US, saying that this is helping uh
lower the cost of energy. Again, it's
that focus from the administration on
the cost of living. Finally, rounding
things up with some sellside action.
Door Dash gets an upgrade from Jeff
saying that they basically have lowered
the bar. They had a record sell-off
earlier this month after their earnings
with the new investments, but Jeff says
that after that sell off and not to
mention that growth is looking good at
Door Dash, they are recommending a buy
on that stock. John
>> Danny, thank you. That stock is up by 3%
in the pre-market. talking about
affordability in this country. Trying to
order food now through anything like
Door Dash, any of those kind of
companies in say a city like New York
has become so expensive, ridiculously
expensive, I think prohibitively
expensive to order food through these
destinations now.
>> It's actually spurring me to use my legs
much more,
>> right? get up and jump
>> actually go get it because I mean
ultimately you're looking at a service
fee then you're looking at a potential
processing fee then you're looking at
the driver tip then you're adding to the
restaurant manufacturing fee I mean
whatever the fees just start adding up
in addition to the prices of the actual
meals which are uh going up as well yeah
you're right but people are clearly
still going
>> rebuild that relationship with these
restaurants and the customer there is a
restaurant that I order from every
Friday evening almost every single week
and I bet they don't even have a clue
who we are because we go through the
order in the delivery company, right?
The way it used to be is they knew who
you were. They threw in some dessert.
They gave you an extra piece of whatever
you liked. And now no one knows who
anybody is anymore because there's this
weird intermediary that's charging you
all this money to connect you to the
restaurant that you go to every single
week without the restaurant even
knowing.
>> Yeah, there's not that relationship
really with the restaurant and not
really the recourse. Make ordering food
great again.
>> Right. There you go. Okay, we've got
some news to talk about on our radar
this morning. Investors counting down to
Nvidia earnings due after the closing
bell. Traders eager to see if the
billion spent on AI are paying off.
Analysts expecting the company to show
50% growth in both net income and in
revenue. Elsewhere, the Apollo CEO Mark
Rowan downplaying recent concerns over
private credit. Rome was speaking at
Bloomberg's new economy forum in
Singapore.
>> Credit stats are actually improving
rather than declining. That does not
mean we will not have late cycle banking
behavior because there are good banks
and bad banks and good insurance
companies and bad insurance companies
and good asset managers and bad asset
managers. But there's nothing that I see
that is systemic.
>> Roman going on to suggest it's probably
rational to reduce risk in the current
market environment. If there's a guy out
there that I'd pick up the phone to just
to calm me down, it would be that guy
right there. Mark Rowan always prepared
just to talk you off the edge of the
cliff.
>> Well, and frankly, he's got a lot of uh
stake in the game. They've got a lot of
skin in the game with respect to just
how big their investment is in private
credit. Of course, Apollo has focused
more on the investment grade side of
things. They're not focused as much on
the speculative range of the credit.
We've heard this from so many of the
private credit investors. We've also
heard from the big uh bank CEOs
yesterday. We heard from John Waldron of
Goldman Sachs and he was saying, "Yeah,
there could be a little bit more to go."
It wasn't exactly ringing the red flag
or ringing the the the five alarm fire.
There was a question here just about a
blowoff top that seemed healthy. It
seems like there's a contradiction
between cockroaches that are going to
and more the whole system and
potentially valuations that got a little
heady that are now getting a little bit
lower and it seems like more and more
people are leaning toward the latter
>> given what's emerging there. Can a 25
basis point reduction at the Federal
Reserve make a difference? Who's going
to lead the Fed in 2026? Amarie had a
little exchange with the president
yesterday. The president indicating he
knows his pick to be the next Fed chair.
The president mentioning he may opt for
a contender that's seen as quote
politically correct with the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson saying he'll
hopefully have an answer by Christmas.
The Treasury Secretary hoping the answer
isn't him.
>> Yeah. Well, he is saying it is not going
to be him. Most people tend to agree.
Question is, and we were talking about
this earlier, who's a politically
correct choice for the Federal Reserve?
Is it politically in the eyes of the
market? Is this politically in the eyes
of President Trump? Because ultimately
right now people think it's Kevin
Hasset. the market thinks the
politically correct version is either
Chris Waller or Rick Reer. The other
potential contenders are Kevin Worsh who
seems to have fallen off the map with
respect to anyone ever mentioning him or
Mickey Bowman, Michelle Bowman, who's
making her own waves uh as the uh vice
chair of supervision and kind of what
she's doing with respect to some of the
oversight of banks. So, a real question
here it ultimately seems between Rick
Reer, Kevin Hasset, Scott Besson can't
get his name out of it and of course
Chris Waller
>> keeps coming up, doesn't it? The
president says, "I've made my pick." And
then he looks at the Treasury Secretary
and said, "I wanted him." So is that
still your pick or is it someone else?
>> It seems like it's someone else cuz he
gave him an out and Scott Bessant was
saying absolutely not. So it seems like
that's not going to be the case.
Nonetheless, there still is a chance at
least on poly market that that is the
end uh pick for the Fed.
>> I said this story had gone quiet
yesterday and Marie bringing some life
back to that story down in Washington DC
in the Oval. We did get some earnings
from Target. So let's talk about those
numbers. They crossed moments ago. They
see the fullear adjusted EPS outlook at
about $7 to $8. They had seen 7 to9. So
just bringing down the top end of that
range for the outlook from Target. The
stock Lisa down by 2.3%.
>> Yeah, this isn't as good as a lot of
people expected. Full year adjusted
earnings per share now between that 7
and 8 versus the 7 to9. But also looking
at third quarter comp sales down 2.7%
the estimate had been 2.06%.
Overall pretty much a miss across the
board. Net sales net uh nets gained a
little bit. Then this headline drops.
Open AI and target target uh report a
partnership. Target it will continue
relying on chat GPT enterprise according
to OpenAI. Not even a mention of Open AI
or artificial intelligence could help
boost these these shares in futures
markets. I mean I don't know what to
make of this but clearly this is going
to be the ten tenure of a lot the tone
of a lot of different corporate
earnings. How are they deploying
artificial intelligence and how will it
actually improve their bottom line?
>> We often say on this program you can
learn something from the numbers and
learn something from how the market
responds to them. The way the market
responds to this story has changed.
There wasn't so long ago, maybe weeks,
not even months. When you saw a story
like that, the stock would be up 5 10%.
Likewise yesterday with Anthropic,
Microsoft, Nvidia coming out and doing
the usual, we'll get together, I'll
spend here, you'll spend there, we all
do better. Harrah. and you'd see a 5-
10% move in all those stocks. We didn't
see that yesterday either. Things have
changed. Things have shifted. How
permanently so, I've got absolutely no
idea. It's an observation, but without a
doubt, things have changed.
>> Investors want to see the money. They
want to see the results. They want to
see the use cases. They aren't happy
enough with someday it will make an
incredible difference. Right now, Target
is coming out saying the COO is talking
about we are relentless in our pursuit
of returning to growth and not satisfied
with our current results. talking about
gaining more efficiencies with respect
to their partnership with open AI and
using chat GPT in their systems. How can
they do this? How effective will that
be? Will this come from job cuts? Is
isn't the hopes and dreams spy pie in
the sky that it will massively expand
the business model of so many different
companies? And I think that reality
check is what's really got people's uh
psyches in the market.
>> To make it super simple, do we have a
target problem or a consumer problem?
Check out Walmart off the back of these
numbers. Walmart down by 7/10en of 1%.
Walmart reports tomorrow there's a
bigger and bigger worry that the more
you hear from these companies who are
struggling to generate growth. It's not
just a company specific issue it might
be a broader issue
>> especially if Walmart performs well
there is a question of how much they're
able to do this in the back of
efficiencies on the back of just cutting
costs through rapid deployment of
technology. Is that a good story for the
consumer or is that potentially a
negative read on the consumer in terms
of the levers that people are pulling in
order to have good results? It's not
good enough just to have okay results.
It's also the why. Where's the growth
strategy? It might be good for Walmart
shares, but it might not speak to a
consumer. Right now, what we heard from
Target is that there was choppiness
across their business. They've been
trying to figure out what exactly it is.
But again, that consumer discretion
seems to not necessarily be driving
results in the same kind of
>> Home Depot yesterday. Look, they've
turned around and told us mortgage rates
have eased. We got what we wanted there
and it didn't result in a pickup in
activity. What else do you need to know?
The interest rate reductions, the looser
financial conditions, the lower mortgage
rates have not resulted in a pickup in
economic activity, which is why the
governor Wallers of this world are still
making a case we need to go even lower
on interest rates.
>> Yeah, of course, Lowe's performed
better. Lowe's had a better outlook. How
much is this a strategy issue? How much
is this a broad consumer issue? And how
much is this a softness in things like
the housing market or frankly the
hurricane season, which again Lowe's
also made mention of? I think Walmart's
going to be the real key in all of this.
If Walmart reports that the consumers
are going gang buster and are doing
great and are going out there, well,
Target will lose even more and Walmart
shares will do well and it will speak to
the muddling along kind of economy that
so many people point to. It is a mystery
wrapped in an enigma
>> and we're going to unwrap that enigma
with a mystery bed really in it tomorrow
morning, aren't we? Payrolls at 8:30
Eastern time. Walmart as well. There's a
real chance that you get some greater
clarity tomorrow. At least I hope we do
on the American consumer and the path
forward for this Federal Reserve.
Numbers from Target out just moments
ago. The stock is down by about 1.4%.
The company just trimming the top end of
its outlook as it looks forward and
seems pretty flat growth at the moment
and that is a problem. That stock is
down in the pre-market. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara for more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Just to recap those earnings,
we are seeing target shares down one and
a half% in the pre-market after posting
mixed results for the third quarter. The
retail giant beat earnings estimates but
saw revenue come in lower than expected.
Target also narrowing its adjusted EPS
guidance for the full year. Along with
the results, Target announced a
partnership with Open AI. Meanwhile,
Meta defeating the government's
antitrust case over its acquisitions of
Instagram and WhatsApp. A district judge
ruling the FTC failed to prove Meta
still holds monopoly power, saying
rivals like Tik Tok and YouTube are
competing for user attention.
and Elon Musk returning to the White
House last night to attend a
high-profile gala dinner honoring Saudi
Crown Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman.
Musk's appearance could be a sign that
tensions between President Trump and the
world's richest man have eased. Other
guests including included Tim Cook,
David Allison, Jensen Wong, Lisa Sue,
and football star Cristiano Ronaldo.
That should be brief, John.
>> Very cool. Yhara, thank you. More from
Yahara in the next hour. Up next on the
program, betting big on AI.
>> Nokia is in all of the world's base
stations. So, we now have this fabric
that we can deploy AI computing services
on top of. It's going to be completely
revolutionary.
>> We'll talk about that revolution in just
a moment with the Nokia CEO from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
4 day slide on the S&P 500. On the S&P
500 so far this morning, we're doing
okay going into the opening bell, a few
hours away. Plus, Nvidia after the
closing bow very much in focus. Stocks
up across the board here up by 0.4 four
on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 higher by
0.5. One single name to talk about this
morning ahead of earnings from Walmart
tomorrow morning. Target out just
moments ago. Target down in the
pre-market softer by 0.8% just cutting
the top end of its outlook. The outlook
not great. Grow's pretty flat and we're
trying to figure out if this is a Target
problem or a broader consumer issue in
this country.
>> And ultimately Walmart might hold the
keys to that. It seems like Target is
looking at greater efficiencies that
they're not happy with performance.
Target has struggled with inventory
issues and a host of other uh lack of
competitive power with respect to
Walmart. I just wonder how much the
OpenAI announcement really played into
that question saying that they're going
to use Chat GPT's networks to try to
make themselves more efficient going
forward.
>> Target down by 0.9% under Savannah this
morning betting big on AI.
>> Nokia is in all of the world's base
stations. We're going to be able to
provide AI services which is going to be
able to make it easier for us to do
robotics and autonomous vehicles and
industrial automation and reach all of
the different places around the world.
So we now have this fabric that we can
deploy AI computing services on top of
it. It's going to be completely
revolutionary.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Nokia
announcing a new plan to streamline its
business with a focus on AI. The Nokia
CEO Justin Hotart saying Nokia changed
the world once by connecting people and
will again by connecting intelligence.
Justin Hotart joins us now for more.
Justin, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Great to see you, John.
>> We've got some time with you, so let's
take a big step back. Our generation of
course knows your company well, late
90s, early 2000s handsets. What do you
want it to be in the next few years?
>> Yeah, I I want us to be a company that's
known for connecting intelligence and
ushering in the AI era. And here's why.
If if you think about that that time
where the world came to no Nokia, it was
about connecting people. That of course
was the tagline, but it was mobile
devices. It was it was text messaging on
a 12key keypad. It was calling people
any, you know, anytime, anywhere,
calling our friends, our family, our
work colleagues. Uh, and of course it
was about the game snakes, which u I got
more messages from when I was announced
as CEO. Absolutely.
>> Done it.
So but but then the world changed and
the internet you know the internet super
cycle came and it was all about
connecting information and as mobile as
mobile devices became not just about
calling they came about applications and
data. Nokia lost out and moved from
being a handset provider to being a
network provider an infrastructure
provider. And the reality is if you look
at the telecommunications industry our
primary customer base the industry also
was slow to capture that transition. you
know really if you think about 2G and 3G
mobile communications they were largely
about voice mobile data was coming in
and uh and we were building better voice
networks so as as as bandwidth went from
you know mobile apps to mobile streaming
the industry's been catching up 5G still
fairly lowly low penetration when you
think about it globally 35% uh
penetration in the market so as we look
ahead we need to start anticipating
where the market's going and with AI the
market is going to change dramatically
It's already changing in the data center
which is a part of our business. You
know, we're building AI factories.
Obviously, Jensen talks a lot about
this. I know Nvidia has earnings later
today, but we're connecting data centers
to each other and building massive AI
factories. That's using our optical
technology. It's using our IP routing
technology. And where's the future
headed? The future's headed to physical
AI, robotics, autonomous vehicles,
delivery drones,
AR, VR, you know, glasses, more and more
devices. And fundamentally that means
our networks need to change to handle
that and that's what we're planning for
and anticipating to seize that
opportunity.
>> Can you briefly describe the growth
opportunity here and how the profile the
growth profile of your company will
change as you make this shift?
>> Yeah, look I mean today you see you see
the pockets of growth that we have in
the fixed infrastructure and as we see
this build for AI native networks going
into mobile we're going to see
tremendous growth there. It's just not
coming in the next few years. We believe
it will come over the longer term as the
market invests and builds, but it's not
going to be in the next couple of years.
So really think of our business in a
couple of ways. Capturing growth in
fixed infrastructure today and then in
mobile infrastructure, positioning the
business for technology innovation and
longerterm growth as that market picks
up.
>> What industries do you expect to be most
dominant in? Are there particular
industries that you think will be
fastest to adopt the AI connectivity
that you're hoping to provide?
>> Yeah, I I think there's a few things.
First of all, um, you know, there's no
question that, uh, the the core tech
industry that we're in today is is the
engine of growth, right? AI and cloud
customers, hyperscalers, cloud
providers, and that's of course serving
the technologies we have today, LLMs,
you know, AI agents. But when we look
ahead, I I I see it being in areas like
transport and logistics and
manufacturing, physical AI, also an an
area that we already serve uh that we
call mission critical enterprises. Think
of uh public safety uh you know rail
transport these are these are places
where AI can add you know better
reliability better security better
outcomes for people if you think about
public safety for example emergency
services and those are areas where I
think we'll see f you know we'll see
faster AI adoption but I I don't think
we can you know we can predict the
future perfectly we need to just
anticipate what are the use cases and
the needs it may be that you know
delivery drones other retail
applications also accelerate and those
are early users. So for us, it's about
building the the the the plumbing and
the core capability that we need.
>> This is a difficulty for markets right
now. This idea that there could be a
duration mismatch between the amount of
money people are putting into some of
these technologies and when we'll
actually see results. How do you prepare
investors for the fact that the
investments that you make might not turn
a profit in the same kind of way that
they're expecting for two years, three
years, 5 years, even 10 years down the
line? Yeah, I first of all, I think this
is uh this is what's great about our
company is that is that we have all of
the assets to participate in those
different duration profiles and and one
of them I didn't talk about yet is
actually our our technology standards
business which we're now announcing as a
part of mobile infrastructure. That's a
business that does IP licensing. So that
actually has an even longer duration. So
we invest today and we see uh you we'll
see a 10 or 20 year horizon on returns
on that business. And the the reality is
in technology, we always invest well
ahead of these curves. You know, we're
always three to five years ahead. Uh and
the benefit for investors, for us, is
that you're getting you're getting the
benefit of growth today with what we're
seeing in in AI and cloud. And you're
seeing us prepare so that you can
participate as the growth comes later in
mobile. And ultimately underneath that
is really strong cash flow with our uh
with our IP licensing business.
>> Justin, you've seen the push back in the
market. I'd love some take from you your
reflection on what we've seen over the
last few weeks. There is a worry about
overbuild over capacity and you operate
in the physical world. Are you worried
about that? And how do you position the
company to leverage this potential this
opportunity without being a big part of
a potential bust down the road?
>> Yeah, I I think John it's you said it
perfectly. We we need to be disciplined
and one of the reasons we announced the
strategy that we announced today is
around being disciplined. You know, we
can't invest in mobile networks assuming
that we're going to have growth next
year. The reality is the network the
mobile network providers, the telos are
largely fat flat. They have they have
challenge returns on their capital. So,
we have to be disciplined around where
we invest and we have to be incredibly
efficient around those investments. The
other side though is if you even if you
look there's a lot of excitement and
talk about a bubble but even when you go
back and look at the internet bubble the
internet bubble the dot bubble was it
was a couple of years and then growth in
infrastructure continued if you go back
and look at the players that won they
they were prepared because they were
investing through that cycle and from an
R&D perspective we have to continue to
invest through that cycle and honestly
when I look at some of the fundamentals
when I look at the the the value that AI
delivers the the productivity impact
even the productivity impact we're
seeing internally in some of our use
cases and the potential productivity
impact for the things we haven't even
deployed yet. There's so much there's so
much ROI and I think that's what's a
little bit different about this is that
from a from a business and a
productivity perspective. It's much
richer than what you know we saw in dot
in the early days was largely a consumer
phenomenon. this is much more about
about business productivity and that's
why I think even though we we will have
periods of digestion uh you know and we
may have some you know some players come
in and out of the market all very
natural in tech by the way we see this
we see this in every cycle I I think the
long-term trends are very very favorable
and for us you know and certainly as a
CEO of a of a tech company we need to be
we need to be looking at the long term
and that's why this partnership that we
announced a couple weeks ago with Nvidia
is so important and certainly you know I
think you know Jen obviously has clear
vision for the long term, but that's why
there's so much there's so much synergy
between us because what he's doing and
his vision for where this needs to go
and our vision for what we need to
deliver are just very very naturally
matched.
>> Looking forward to tracking the story
with you. Thanks for dropping by.
>> Great. Great to see you.
>> Enjoyed the conversation. Justin Hotard
there, the Nokia CEO. Up next on the
program of the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance, we'll be catching up with
Libby Canel of Pimco, Francis Donald of
RBC, and Ashok Batia of Newberger
Berman. from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> I think the economy is worse than we
realize. There is a chance of recession.
>> The consumer is under a bit of pressure.
>> It's about the K-shaped economy. You
probably like to see the low-end
consumer get a bit better. At the end of
the day, we are seeing still strength in
the consumer spending and that is
fueling business on Main Street.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now
following a 4-day slide on the S&P 500.
Your scores look like this. on the S&P
bouncing back just a touch. We're higher
by a third of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ 100, we're up by 0.4. On the
Russell, we're up by 0.5. The main event
a little bit later after the close,
we'll hear from Nvidia. Before we get
there, let's head over to Singapore.
Bloomberg's annual new economy forum is
underway. Bloomberg editor-inchief John
Miklthweight is speaking with the prime
minister. Let's take a listen.
>> China will feel the same way. And while
there may be differences that you know
the two countries can still get along
and work together
>> the current atmosphere what do you what
do you think the chances are of a a war
over Taiwan?
>> We've always said that we don't think
this is likely to happen in the you know
foreseeable future at least in terms of
an unilateral unprovoked action by
China.
You've asked this question repeatedly
>> to my predecessors, to me.
>> So far, you've been right
>> and our views remain the same. It is an
important issue for China, Taiwan. It is
the radius of red lines. But I don't see
and we don't see it happening unless
something happens that really crosses
China's red lines in terms of for
example a unilateral move by Taiwan.
Yes.
>> To declare independence because then it
becomes two China not one China. I think
America's policy here also is very
critical and America has always been
consistent and very careful with its
policy that there should not be any
unilateral change to the status quo and
number two that while America defends or
supports Taiwan's ability to defend
itself, it does so in accordance to the
Taiwan Relations Act and to America's
one China policy. It's a very carefully
crafted statement and up to now across
different administrations, America has
broadly speaking maintained a consistent
uh approach with that policy and if it
does so I think there will be a good
chance of us maintaining peace and
stability in the Taiwan Straits. You you
also talked about a post American order
which sort of interested me because it
implies that America's move towards
isolationism and protectionism is not
just Donald Trump that even after he
goes back to Mara Lago or heaven or what
maybe he doesn't know the difference um
that America no longer will be a
champion of globalization no longer be a
sort of partner that you can rely on in
the same way as you did. Do you really
think that America has gone?
>> We hope not. When I said post American
order, I was referring to the forces
that are driving us towards a more
multipolar world. So the uniolar moment
where America was the clear was the
leader that helped to guide underwrite
the global system. That moment I think
is over. So the old rules have are not
do not no longer apply but the new ones
have not been written. Uh but as we
transit into this new multipolar world,
it's not as though every pole remains
the same. America is still the biggest
most powerful country and still
maintains America's leadership remains
vital and we certainly hope that uh
America will be actively engaged in the
world. Maybe not now, maybe not with
this administration, but there will be a
time when America can take up its role,
be actively engaged, constructive, and
continue to have good relations with all
its key partners. America's role is
critical for stability and continued
prosperity in the world. And the world
needs America to behave like that.
>> To look at from the outside, America's
policy towards China seems somewhat um
schizophrenic. On the one hand, there is
a very strong desire to keep China in
check. On the other hand, most people
would say you keep a country like China
in check by bringing all the other
allies, all the people in the region
onto your side. And yet, as you pointed
out, when tariffs happened, you know,
Trump has hit everyone with a variety of
things which were not would not seem
like allike behavior.
You know I visit China regularly just to
find out what how things are developing
and
all the actions that America takes visav
China has in a way only strengthened
their resolve to work even harder
to move faster on technology
self-sufficiency
and to and they are determined to grow.
So one China commentator tells me
there's nothing America can do to stop
China. Only China can stop China.
And when I heard that, it reminded me of
something I heard long time ago about
the US too. There's, you know, Abraham
Lincoln once said, if uh if destruction
be our lot, let us Americans be the
author and finisher of it. And and so it
strikes me that I think shortly before a
civil war, but so it may be may be
rather bad.
>> But it strikes me that in this great
rivalry, everyone is focused on what one
country does to another.
>> Yeah.
>> But really the fates of these two great
powers will be determined by their own
people. At the end of the day,
Americans decide Americans future.
Chinese people decide Chinese future.
That's what it comes down to. And it's
their actions, their agency that
determines domestic reforms that
determines the direction that these
countries will take.
>> In terms of Singapore's position in that
world, I mean, I suppose if I was to
look at Southeast Asia, I must have been
coming here for three decades or around
that. When I first came, I think there
was a general presumption that if things
came to a head with China, most of
Southeast Asia would probably stick with
the West. You look at what's happened
over the past year, you know, that's
become Southeast Asia, including
Singapore has become home to many more
Chinese companies. As I said, Donald
Trump hit the allies with tariffs. You
had Joe Biden wasn't that kind to you
either. Your first visit, your first
visit as prime minister was to Beijing,
not outside Azen was to Beijing, not
Washington.
>> I mean, is America losing this region?
We've we've put a request to visit the
Washington waiting for the dates.
>> But but I wouldn't read too much into
these sorts of things and whe
>> that's but that's indicative isn't it?
You would imagine an American president
would want to see one of his main
>> but you know whether where I go what
countries I visit. Um and I will also
wouldn't say that um in the past it's
very clear-cut that countries would side
with one one side the west and now side
with China and things have flipped. I
think that's too simplistic a portrayal.
There is no doubt America's actions over
this recent period has impacted
America's standing in Southeast Asia.
All the surveys would suggest that and
it's very clear-cut. Um but I think
there's still tremendous goodwill and
desire for ASEAN countries to engage the
US. President Trump came for the ASEAN
summit meeting. He preided over the
peace accord between Cambodia and
Thailand and then he sat down for a
meeting with all the ASEAN leaders
patiently listening to each one engaging
and listening to each one and at the end
of all the intervention said that
America and him personally is committed
to ASEAN. I think that's well received
by ASEAN. Um in the previous
administration, Gina is here, Secretary
Raondo. Uh we worked on Indo the IPF,
Indopacific economic framework under the
Biden administration
and many Southeast Asian countries
welcome that because America is still
the largest investor in this part of the
world in terms of FDI and all the
countries look forward to having more
linkages with America, more engagement
with America, more investment from the
US. So yes, the
um America's standing has taken a hit.
There's no doubt. But we hope America
can recover from this and we would like
to see America recovering from this.
Just on that, you've spent quite a lot
of time though talking about a
multi-olar world and one where you've
tried to I suppose bring together what
may be described as a coalition of the
willing of kind of free trading
countries that
>> would deepen ties and that would sort of
get on with the business of
globalization whilst America and China
go about building walls of different
sorts
but that particular way you know what
can you do with that in practice you you
see you've accumulated a group of
countries is what can you actually do?
It's the sort of is it just about having
slightly better documentation and
things? What is the end of that?
>> Let me put it this way. The
stable multilateral framework that we
were all familiar with is unraveling.
That framework was optimized for trade
efficiency.
In today's world, countries are more
concerned about security and resilience.
So, countries everywhere are prepared to
accept some inefficiency, higher cost in
return for higher security and
resilience.
But this is now being done unilaterally
country by country taking its own
actions. And that's just not
sustainable. In the worst case, you will
end up with something that like what
happened after the Smooth Holly
terrorists in the 1930s. Someone does
something, another one retaliates. There
will be a dynamic where it's just
escalating and before too long, we will
end up with devastating consequences.
On the other hand, we know that the WTO,
which was meant to solve these problems,
isn't working.
We would like to see a new framework in
place. It's not easy to get that happen
now, but ideally a new framework that
finds ways in which countries can
legitimately exercise and protect their
own national interest, but with
restraint, with some shared rules and
not on the basis that you can
unilaterally do things to coers another
country or to punish another country,
which is somewhat happening now. So, how
do we get there? And I think it's very
hard for all of us to imagine ways to
get there. But I think we should not
give up trying. And that's what we would
like to do, which is work with
like-minded countries. Some of the um
you know, we have a future of investment
and trade partnership with 15 or so
countries doing this, but also working
with the WTO, working with regional
groupings like the CPTP and the EU. And
all of these efforts ultimately are not
just about tariffs. They are about
setting new norms, new rules of the road
that would allow us to facilitate trade
and investments and find some way to
ensure supply chains remain resilient
and secure and and in a way we are
laying the foundations for a new
multilateral framework that may come
later on. I I looked and saw the the
future of investment trade partnership
fit as it's known and your the members
include group is Brunai, Costa Rica,
Chile, Iceland, Likenstein, Morocco, New
Zealand, Norway, Panama, Rwanda,
Singapore, Switzerland, the UAE and
Uruguay, which is a fantastic kind of
World Cup group to be in, but it's
it doesn't feel like the beginnings of a
big trade block.
>> I know, but uh don't sweat the small
stuff.
Um you know how the TPP started and the
TPP started P4
very small countries four tiny economies
came together in the P4 that became the
TPP and TPP and when America decided not
to continue we had the CPTPPP
so great things can start from small
places including Singapore. What about
what about what about something you've
already
what about something you've already got
which is Azan
>> and you are a next year no 2027 you
become take over the chairmanship for it
>> and you look at Azan as you say it's
been very successful at
>> preventing conflict it's become a kind
of grouping
>> when when you tried to negotiate with
Trump as a group slightly sort of pushed
it aside and made you negotiate
negotiate one with each other. I I
wondered is there a way of making Azan
into something bigger, something deeper?
You know, at the moment it's based
wholly around consensus. Could you ever
move to something like a majority
agreement instead? I I hate to mention
the words European Union in a good
light, but if you were to take it a
little bit closer to the European Union,
does that make sense?
>> We certainly want to integrate faster
and and bring together the single
market. I mean there's so much that
still needs to be done but we also have
to recognize the wide diversity of ASEAN
countries at different levels of
development and so it's we we move as
fast as we can I I would say that it was
not so much that the US didn't want to
negotiate with ASEAN collectively it's
just impossible given the diversity in
ASEAN ASEAN would not be able to
negotiate a trade deal with America as a
collective it had to be country by
country we are not quite there yet to to
negotiate deals like that collectively.
But ASEAN has its advantages and
strengths. It's when we talk about ASEAN
centrality for example, it's not as
though it means ASEAN dominates
everything, but it means ASEAN has
pooling power as a convenor and
precisely because of the fracturing of
the global economy that we see now and
the uncertainties
more and more major powers would like to
do strengthen their links with ASEAN. EU
is interested in an FDA with us. The
GCC, we've been talking to them. Canada
is interested in an FDA with us too. So,
we are discussing these initiatives very
seriously and hopefully when I mean
we'll do this next year when Philippines
is chair and and when Singapore chairs
ASEAN in 2027, we hope we can continue
to build on the foundations and make
progress.
>> So, the way in which ASEAN would grow
would probably be going broader rather
than deeper. you're not going to end up
with a
>> we have to do both. I
>> I think we have to we have to go deeper
as well. But it's just that going deeper
takes time. It's it's not
straightforward and
you know countries will be able to move
at different paces and in some instances
we may very well say the countries that
are able to move faster do first. I
wouldn't rule that out. When we talked
about the region, you know, you said you
didn't think there was the war coming on
or anything like that, but there is a
there is do you think in the end country
like Singapore will have to choose
between China and America? You you've
managed to avoid that so far.
>> Yeah. Another favorite question.
>> Yes, it's coming that way. Journal
journalists are notoriously unoriginal,
but the problems don't change.
>> The choice is arguably getting bigger.
>> The pressures will always be there. the
great powers say we don't want you to
choose but of course each one wants us
to be a closer friend to them and that's
always the tension is always there the
pressures will always be there but at
the end of the day uh we don't have to
choose really we have to I mean it's not
issue by issue there will be some
instances where we look at the issue and
we so happens that the particular
position we take is the same as the US
for example or as China for example but
it's not from the lens of choosing one
versus the other. It's from the lens of
Singapore's national interest and that
that will always be the case for us. And
it's the same not just for Singapore.
It's the same in ASEAN. ASEAN countries
feel the same way. We have been the
arena for proxy wars before. It's been
such a painful experience. We don't want
that to happen again. And so ASEAN will
continue to be fiercely independent. not
so much non-aligned
but multiple aligned uh you know engage
with all the key players
>> on that on that subject you know hot war
but there's a lot of cold war going on
and
there's been this issue about state
sponsored cyber attacks
>> people interfering in the election your
your party complained about that um in
the election you won you've had cyber
attacks and you're going to adjust I
think your your foreign interference law
further
>> yes
>> and I wondered Are there any particular
countries you're worried about? Is it
China, Malaysia, Indonesia, or all the
above?
>> Uh, we don't call out our adversaries,
>> but we know who they are.
>> It's a good way to be around. Can I ask
a bit about
>> and we are not naive.
>> Can I ask about Singapore as a financial
hub?
>> You've had this onrush of of money
coming here. You've had this big push to
lure people here, the family offices.
You see many of them here. a lot of
wealthy people coming here and you get
two issues from that and the first one
is this issue of inequality which I know
the genie coefficient has got better so
that in income terms
>> in income terms
>> income terms getting better but there is
this every time I come here people talk
about inequality more
>> and I wondered you've already introduced
taxes on luxury cars and properties but
do you see Singapore moving towards
other things a capital gains tax for
instance
>> the two separate issues really because
wealth management Singapore is a
financial center. I think we can grow in
terms of wealth management. Family
offices may set up here. Um they are not
Singaporeans.
Um they you know have their offices
here. They manage your funds out of
Singapore. We welcome that. It creates
jobs for Singaporeans. I think that's a
good thing and we can explain that to
Singaporeans. Sometimes it creates
frictions especially when there are
ostentatious shows of of Ferrari
>> Ferraris and things. Yes.
>> And we have just to remind them just you
know Singapore is a different society.
We are egalitarian. Our norms are
different. Please understand. And for
the most part they do um tackling wealth
inequality where it comes to our people
and our population. That's something we
continue to work on whether it's income
or wealth. We have a range of uh
policies. It's not just about tax alone
because in Singapore we have the ability
to also provide wealth injections and a
major reason why we can do that is
housing.
Everyone owns almost everyone owns their
own home. majority live in public
housing and when you buy a flat from the
housing development board in Singapore
you get housing equity and that's the
reason why even at the lower end of
bottom 20% of households actually they
have significant net wealth net asset
value because of home ownership. So
that's one way we can continue to
fine-tune our policies to provide more
support and uplift for lower income
groups. We also have a central provident
fund which is social security which is
the individual's own retirement nest egg
which we do topups from time to time. So
our tool sets are not limited. I know
there's a lot of interest again
Bloomberg's favorite question for me.
>> Capital gains tax.
>> Capital gains tax, wealth tax. A lot of
f questions about tax, but our our
toolkits are not limited to tax alone.
>> We also have wealth transfers.
>> I'll I'll take that as a maybe. Um
a lot just the other issue about a lot
of wealthy people coming here is that
not all of them have been virtuous, if I
can put it that way. You know, you had
the money laundering
>> got illicit flaws.
>> Yes. And you had the accusations about
from the US about one of the heads of
the main Asian crime families being
here. You've dealt with these things.
But there is and one of your ministers
had a very nice Chinese saying when when
we open the windows some flies may also
enter
>> and sometimes we get more than flies.
>> Yes. But how many flies can Singapore
tolerate and do you need a bigger fly
swatter? Uh we do have quite a big
flatter. I mean it's we take it very
seriously.
It's not unique to Singapore. The
illicit flows are everywhere. It's all
financial centers have to deal with
this. So to us it's not so much about
what you know that that there is an
incident. There's bound there are bound
to be incidents and they are bound to be
suspicious transactions and then with
intelligence with cooperation across
different countries eventually we get to
the bottom of it. The key is what do you
do and we are very stringent and we take
swift action and we will we are
determined to protect our reputation
because that's what keeps Singapore
going a trusted business and financial
center.
>> Can I can I ask you about energy? I've
been quite struck being here for the
past day or so is that a lot of people
are talking about all those new data
centers. Um the idea that AI
particularly will need more energy. You
look at Singapore energy at the moment
virtually all of it comes from LG
>> very successful.
>> But the idea that somehow in the end
Singapore has to kind of get energy of
its own and there you're really in a
choice about either trying to do
something with one of your neighbors
maybe renewable thing or whatever. The
other big very obvious option is nuclear
energy. I mean is that something which
you is become a much bigger part of
Singapore's future?
>> We don't know yet but we are certainly
studying the option seriously.
Um we there won't be an easy silver
bullet in our case because we are small.
We are unable to scale up renewable
energy at at the in terms of the amounts
that we need. Some of the solutions as
you highlighted would include plugging
into an ASEAN power grid which we are
building
>> taking time complex but it's happening
but still we would like to have our own
source of clean power.
>> Hydrogen might come up as one
possibility but it's expensive. So you
could ship hydrogen and then burn it
through a turbine. It's got lower
emissions than LG. That's possible. But
uh we are also studying the possibility
of nuclear power especially when you
look at some of the new technologies
with SMRs which are safer. We are
looking at whether it might be possible
in our context we are very small 750
square kilmters or less than 300 square
miles that's tiny.
>> Yes. So we have to take it we have to
look at the look at it consider the
safety very closely before we decide and
look at the technology and how it's
evolve.
>> Is there a kind of time scale on that?
When do you think
>> it it really depends also on how the
technology evolves and as of now we've
been looking at different technologies
you don't really see very many
operational SMRs particularly small the
SMRs which are grid scale we're not
talking about the tiny ones like 50
megawatt you know that those don't serve
our needs right we're talking about grid
scale commercial scale SMRs and you
don't see a lot of them around as of now
um And so we are studying looking at you
know we are working with partners
including America and others Europe um
looking at the technology understanding
it better understanding the implications
and then if we think it's possible we
will have to also convince the public
that this is indeed a technology that is
safe and deployable in Singapore. But we
are not there yet. We are still at the
very early stages of building up
capabilities.
many things about you. I ask you a
personal question at the end. You know,
you you're the first leader to be born
after Singapore declared independence.
>> Yes.
>> You're also only the second leader
outside the Lee family. And I wondered
>> we only had four prime ministers in
Singapore.
>> Not many people have had four prime
ministers for that long.
What what makes the biggest difference
to you? Is it that generational thing?
your
>> difference in terms of
>> well in terms of the way that you want
to go ahead that you are you are
somebody from a new generation of
Singapore does that make a bigger
difference to the way you want to lead
Singapore over the next period
I I suppose me being from a different
generation is part of it but in terms of
ethos mindset values
I represent the party and the the
foundational values remain the same. We
are here to build a better Singapore
because history has never been kind to
small states.
And we know despite our success these
last 60 years, the world is a dangerous
place. It's become even more dangerous.
And our mission, my mission is to keep
Singapore going, not just in my term,
but to leave behind a better Singapore
for my successor and for future
generations.
It's so that remains the ethos the the
the the foundational values in which the
my party represent which I represent. I
I keep going back to this very vivid
memory of when I was in Michigan
studying. I've told this story before
but not all the guests here might might
know know this. There is a ghost town in
Michigan and it's called Singapore.
truly
um it was founded in
>> based around free trade and minimal
government.
>> I don't know. It was founded in the
1830s
um near Lake Michigan.
Why Singapore? Perhaps 1830s. Perhaps it
took it took uh inspiration from the
fact that in 1819 there was this exotic
port in the exotic far east founded by
Sir Stamped Raffles. And so maybe the
name traveled. It took some time for
things to travel in those days. And
perhaps it took inspiration from that.
But uh Singapore and Michigan didn't
last very long. I think about 50 years
it's overwhelmed by the sifting shunes.
And now there's only a marker that says
this is where Singapore Michigan stood.
Uh we want Singapore in Southeast Asia
to last for a very long time. That's my
mission.
>> Well, we all hope you achieve that. Um,
thank you very much, Prime Minister, for
talking to us and thank you very much
for hosting us here.
>> Thank you.
>> That was the Bloomberg editor-inchief,
John Miklthweight, alongside the Prime
Minister of Singapore, live from
Bloomberg's annual new economy forum.
Plenty more still to come on Bloomberg
TV and on Bloomberg Radio. If you're
just joining us, welcome to the program.
Equity futures on the S&P firmer by a
third of 1% following a 4-day slide on
the S&P 500. Earnings very much in
focus. Target earlier on this morning
did not impress. Later on tomorrow,
you'll get Walmart. Later on this
evening, you'll hear from Nvidia. Let's
turn back to the economy. The Trump
administration looking to provide $2,000
tariff dividends to US consumers. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson telling
US media families could save the checks.
>> Would a $2,000 tariff dividend check be
inflationary?
>> Uh, well, there are a lot of things that
are going to happen next year. That
could be one of them. And again, maybe
we could be persuade Americans to save
that. My prediction is that first
quarter, second quarter, what we are
going to see is we have brought the
inflation down.
>> Can you persuade Americans to save that
$2,000 check?
>> Good luck. How would you persuade them?
You're going to get a sale. You'll get a
Birkin bag in December if you I mean,
honestly, try that with kids.
>> $2,000 getting spent almost immediately.
Libby Cantra Pimco has this to say.
We're very skeptical the Republicans in
Congress at this point are interested in
adding more to the deficit with another
tax cut. Libby joins us now for more.
Libby, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> There's a shift in the White House,
affordability and focus, new
initiatives. Where's this shift coming
from? And is it durable? Is it
sustainable into next year?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, yes, there is a
shift and obviously it was precipitated
partly at least by the election two
weeks ago when Democrats, if anybody who
had a D, you know, on the end of their
name basically did well. uh and most
Democrats did run on affordability
probably in some ways learning the
lesson from 2024 where they don't think
where they didn't uh sort of lean into
that issue as much and so now the White
House I think understandably a little
bit like how President Biden did in you
know 2021 and 2022 maybe in vain um is
trying to shift more to affordability I
think there are obviously limitations to
what the president can do unilaterally
and I think he's I think Secretary
Bessant understands those limitations
you do need Congress in order to cut
taxes even if the the revenues that are
going to offset that tax cut would come
from tariffs which obviously were put
through unilaterally. So we are
skeptical. Um now with that said and
this is something we think that you the
market is obviously focused on is that
there will be a really nice healthy tax
refund come next spring. I'm not even
sure Americans actually realize that
they're going to get such a nice refund.
But, you know, on average, you know,
households will likely receive $1,000
kind of plus um sort of depending on
their tax bracket, their tax situation.
So, that could maybe, you know, have the
same effect, but in terms of an
additional tax cut paid by tariff
revenues, we think it's very unlikely.
>> What do you think is on the menu? So,
we've seen some tariff relief already.
We've seen the prospect of a $2,000
rebate check. We've also had a
conversation about 50-year mortgages as
well. What else is on the menu? Yeah,
proposals. So, I mean, obviously the
reduction in tariffs for food stuffs,
for beef, for coffee, for bananas, a
little bit of a tell that maybe tariffs
do raise costs at least incrementally.
Um, and then obviously, you know, the
50-year mortgage, you know, we we again
skeptical that that actually goes
through. Lots of issues with that, maybe
provides some um upfront affordability,
some some cost savings in terms of
mortgage payment, but obviously reduces
the amount of equity uh that folks are
able to build in in their homes. doesn't
is not TBA eligible to be very wonky. Uh
so probably has a liquidity issue as
well. So I think the upshot is that we
think that's unlikely. Of course the
real issue with housing as we all know
is supply. Uh and so trying to
incentivize you developers and you know
and folks to build that probably takes
Congress as well. And there's some
things that they can do from a
permitting perspective unilaterally but
really difficult even on the federal
level. So I think the upshot here is
there just limits to what the president
can do unilaterally. can talk about it.
Um, but he need probably needs Congress
to do most of it.
>> But what we learned from the mid
midterms, and I'll call them the mid
midterms, that's essentially what they
were, is that there is this shift to
affordability and there seems to be
bipartisan support to more to uh really
help consumers with the cost of living
concerns that they have. It is a
bipartisan issue politically. Why has
the vibe shift not moved into materially
higher long-term yields if you have
bipartisan support to reduce the amount
of tariffs to reduce the amount of cuts
just broadly to government etc.?
>> Yeah, I mean it's a you know it's a good
question. I think we you know we've
obviously I mean of as you all know that
the curve has obviously steepened a lot
over the last year and so it still
remains relatively steep at least
relative to the very kind of flat yield
curve that we had seen you know for
years previously. So in some ways that
term premium has come back a little bit.
Um but there still is a bid obviously
for treasuries. Um there's you know we
always say the kind of the cleanest
dirty shirt. This expression of Bill
Grosses our founder at Pimco used to
talk about kind of the you know there is
no alternative. You have a lot of dirty
shirts you wear the cleanest dirty shirt
doesn't look great on absolute basis
looks good pretty you know relative to
the other shirts and I think that still
stands. So you know there is going to be
some natural limit in terms of how at
least right now how how you know how
high the 30-year how how much that term
premium does expand. But all things
equal, if you just go back to where we
were back in, you know, October of last
year, the the you know, the yield curve
has steepened.
>> Yeah. I just wonder if bond vigilantes
have either gone to sleep or never
existed, right? Because at a certain
point, we're talking about uh you know,
the deficit that at one point was the
rally and cry for people who are saying
yields are going higher and all of a
sudden we're looking at the potential
roll back of tariff revenue, the
potential addition of uh policies that
could potentially support consumers
whether that $2,000 gets passed or not.
You're talking about a bigger deficit.
Suddenly nobody cares. What's the deal?
>> Yeah. And you know, and we've been
talking about kind of the six seven%
deficits really for the foreseeable
sorry for the foreseeable future. I
>> well done 67.
>> Uh but but really over the foreseeable
future. And that was our view going into
this that regardless of who won the
election, you know, the deficit would be
the biggest loser. That has obviously
come to pass. Uh and you know, nobody is
talking about sort of fiscal
responsibility. I mean, they're not
talking about increases t increasing
taxes or changing entitlement spending.
And that's really what you actually
would need in order to change the fiscal
trajectory. But the same thing um just
from an investor's perspective I mean
people are looking at the US as the sort
of source of growth right I mean if you
just look at what's happening obviously
with AI uh with labor mobility still
immigration I mean the dynamics of the
US economy are still much more
attractive than the other developed rich
world so I think there is a little bit
of that where there's just going to be
kind of demand at least as of now uh for
you know for our for our debt because of
those dynamics.
>> I cannot believe 67 made it to
Bloomberg.
>> Sorry about that. It's okay. I think
that it's great made it happen.
>> I think he's going to be so proud.
>> We you made us relevant because right
now that is ultimately farming.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Nice. Okay, let's not take this too far.
>> Get an email from our PR people.
>> Where is Libby taking this? I think PR
of Pimco are confused already. Libby, I
want to finish on maybe a fracture in
the Republican party. Congressman French
was on the program a little bit earlier
this week and he made the point that he
didn't like broad-based tariffs and he's
typically very diplomatic, but I think a
little bit more vocal now. We're
starting to see signs of the Republican
party on the Hill. It's pushing back a
little bit to the White House. Are you
sensing the same thing?
>> Yes. I mean, obviously the vote on the
Epstein files was a little bit like
that, you know, to sort of put the the
exclamation point on that sentiment. Um,
I do think that this is again, this is
actually a bipartisan phenomenon. If you
just look at the Biden administration at
the end of 2021, the coalition around
Democrats was fracturing then as well.
So, there was more push back on
President Biden by his own party. I
think the same thing is happening now.
Right after the off cycle, the midterm
midterm election of two weeks ago, you
are now seeing that political runway for
the president shorten. And again, this
is, I think, pretty consistent with with
with history. Um, but I do think you
will continue to see more push back. And
as it relates to fiscal policy, tax
cuts, you know, adding to the deficit, a
lot of Republicans very uncomfortable
with that. I also think it has
implications for the Fed chair in terms
of who's actually the nominee. may see,
you know, if the president were to
nominate somebody who was viewed as not
independent, was viewed as too
political. I think that Republicans are
increasingly feeling a little bit more
comfortable to push back. They have been
privately, but maybe more publicly as
well. And again, pretty pretty
consistent with other cycles in history.
>> Do you think just finally that could
lead to a sensible Fed share choice?
>> That has been our view. We think we
think that there's going to be a much
more conventional orthodox Fed chair
than I think a lot of people at least
feared in the market. That's that's what
sensible is to me to me. Right. He would
be the easiest. He would be the easiest.
>> Who do you think the president believes
is politically correct? What does that
mean to the president?
>> Yeah. Not not not sure. I think probably
somebody who's more familiar to to
Washington. So whether that is Governor
Waller or Kevin Hasset, somebody who's
going to be um you know a little bit
more familiar.
>> Like different characters. I don't know.
>> Very different.
>> 67.
>> Liby. Good to see you. Oh, nice. Okay.
Or a farming again.
>> Or or farming over here.
>> Overwhelming. Okay.
>> I'm never getting invited back. Livia,
you'll be invited back. Thanks for being
here. Livy Canel of Pimco. Thank you
very much. Whether Pimco let you come
and talk about that again, I don't know.
Two hours away from the opening bow.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Here's Danny Burger.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Some earnings from the
retailers to work through this morning.
Starting with Target, those shares
sliding 2.4%.
They trimmed their outlook on the high
end. It shows maybe this turnaround that
they've tried and been effort is going
to be taking more time. They also
announced about $5 billion of capital
expenditures on things like opening new
stores, refurbishing the ones they have,
and investment in merchandise. So again,
those shares falling. We also heard from
Lowe's earlier this morning. For them,
it's been a rocky road. They're down 11%
this year. They fell 2.5% yesterday
after the poor earnings from Home Depot.
For them, it was a beat for this the
current quarter. So that was enough to
uplift shares. Those are higher by 6%.
Finally, about half an uh about 10
minutes ago, we heard from TJX. That was
a beat too for the third quarter. This
is one of those companies that of course
is selling discounted merchandise. So,
if there is stress among the consumer,
it's one that you'd expect to do well.
And doing well, it is. And they also
improved their margins. They're at 11.6%
net of taxes. So, those shares up to4%
in the pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. The latest on TJX and
some of the retailers this morning. More
still to come. As Danny pointed out,
we'll hear from Walmart tomorrow
morning. Let's turn to the labor market
data. Investors eyeing the long delayed
September jobs report due tomorrow.
Francis Donald of RBC writing, "We think
fourth quarter data will likely add more
confusion than clarity." Francis joins
us now for more. Francis, welcome to the
program. If we're going to be more
confused than clarified, what does that
mean for that decision on December 10th?
>> Well, it means the Federal Reserve is
going to be more confused and clarified.
and the Federal Reserve just like
markets and economists are going to have
to think a little bit further out into
what Q1 and Q2 are going to look like.
And probably uh that tells us that
employment will become slightly more
problematic, not dramatically, and
inflation will continue to rise. It's a
continuation of that stagflation light
type of environment. And even if we have
bit of a hole here in a couple months of
data uh looking through our view is
still the same which is growth is going
to be slightly below comfort level and
inflation is going to be slightly above
and that will be the situation that this
Federal Reserve and future Federal
Reserves will likely continue to have to
deal with. What are you looking at to
confirm that view? We know that
September data is going to be
backward-looking. Yes, we get that
tomorrow. We know that October data is
going to be muddy at best, confusing at
worst and potentially might even distort
the picture further because of the
government shutdown. And it's unclear
what CPI data we're going to be getting.
So what are your benchmark rate
benchmarks right now?
>> You know, we definitely have enough on
the job side from a variety of private
sector data in order to give us a sense
of the momentum. Do we know the exact
level? No. But we know it's sort of soft
stabilizing enough to bring us towards
our forecast to an unemployment rate of
about 46 later into 2026. Uh so so that
in and of itself we can see the big
problem is on the inflation side. That's
where we have really minimal uh
perspective. We don't have the ability
to see much of what happened in October
and we're probably not going to get full
clarity on what that level looks like
until early in January. And actually,
you don't even get the January data
until February of that month. But I
think one of the stories here is that we
get so obsessed with month-over-month
data as if we need to see what happened
last month or 3 weeks ago to know the
trend of the economy. And the truth is
we don't. We actually have the ability
to map out over an extended period of
time. That's why economists have
one-year or 5-year forecasts because if
we know the direction, we can make
various assumptions. And our assumption
is that we have not seen the
inflationary impact of tariffs as of
yet. We are still drawing down on
inventories in the United States. And
we're likely only going to start seeing
that real pressure on inflation in early
2026 and in middle of 2026 going
forward. So, we can maintain those
assumptions even if we don't have
week-toeek uh maybe obsession over what
the exact level will be. One thing that
a lot of people said during the pandemic
was listen to the companies. The
companies have the front view in terms
of how to plan their businesses. We
heard from Lowe's. We heard from Home
Depot. We heard from Target. Kind of a
mly picture here. Are you getting a
sense from the retailers, from the
consumerf facing companies of a picture
that gives you more clarity heading into
2026?
>> Absolutely. We're looking for anyone who
can give us information. I might add
things like the Fed's Beige book into
that story. So, some of the anecdotal
evidence that some of these core themes
are coming through. The big thing we're
seeing really uh now accepted in the
broad-based narrative is something we've
been talking about for well over a year
now, and that's that concept of the
K-shaped economy. And while I think
there's still maybe a little bit of a
view that that just means the halves are
getting uh richer and the not halves are
getting worse off, I don't know that
we've really internalized how this is
changing the dynamic of consumer spends.
that we've got some consumers that are
trading down and that benefits some
companies and we've got other consumers
that cannot trade down at all. It even
flows into conversations of, for
example, potential $2,000 checks to
American households. Will that be
inflationary? Not for the lower part of
the K who are still really struggling
with affordability crisis. So, we're
looking for sort of evidence of what the
shift in the consumer is really doing.
And I'll add on top of that, it's not
just a K-shaped economy, it's also an
increasingly retired consumer. What are
those spending habits looking like?
because this is really a consumer that
we haven't seen for many decades in the
American economy and any type of
anecdotal or hard data that we can get
on it is very helpful in constructing
that narrative and helping companies
navigate an increasingly difficult
operating environment.
>> Francis, I don't expect you to get
deeply philosophical when I ask this
question, but just to take a step back,
what has gone wrong in the West? Why do
people hate these economies so much?
Because it's not unique to America. I
see it across Europe as well. What's
gone wrong here since the pandemic? And
what can we get right?
>> Well, when we look at the data, which is
the economist perspective to the
philosophical questions, what we see is
really a break in 2023. And it comes
back to this perspective that
historically while you know the wealthy
spent more than uh the notw wealthy,
most of the economy followed the same
economic cycle. So if your upper incomes
were doing well, so were your lower
incomes. It was tides that lifted and
sunk all ships at the same time. So even
though maybe some had more than others,
it really felt more egalitarian that
we're all sort of following in the same
economy. After 2023, and that's where we
see the data really start to break down.
That's when we see that the halves or
the upper part of the K are really
experiencing an entirely different
economy and a different economic cycle.
And this is I think the biggest question
for the Federal Reserve. It's not who's
going to be the chair. is that how does
policy act in an environment where
interest rates impact everybody at the
same time but some areas of the economy
require different interest rate policy?
What about things like fiscal policy has
to become extraordinarily more targeted?
My concern heading into 2026, if you've
asked me to be philosophical, is maybe
that that lowercase K becomes even a
uppercase K because we're going to see
things like changes to the salt cap
deductions. That's going to benefit the
upper part of the K. uh financial
markets doing well benefit one side and
we still haven't seen any material
relief on the affordability side. So
when I talk to clients about the Kshape,
they say, "Well, what solves it?" And my
answer to them is you should really
think about this as maybe semi-permanent
type of dynamic. It's not going away
anytime soon. And if you're a company
trying to figure out how to service your
clients, you have to be really really
aware of what part of that K or maybe we
should increasingly call it a fan you
need to be looking at.
>> Francis, super well framed. Appreciate
your time. Thank you. Francis Donald
there of RBC that was bang on the money
almost perfect. This is not a perfect
parallel but thinking back in history
and monetary policy. Same challenge for
Jagi in the Euro zone debt crisis. There
was an interest rate that the rest of
Europe needed particularly the south and
there was an interest rate that Germany
thought it needed and it was completely
different. Two completely different
economies, different worlds existing at
the same time and a monetary policy
committee trying to set policy for both
worlds. You can't.
>> And this really is going to be the key
question. Do you cut rates to try to
cater to people at the lower end of the
K, the bottom part of the K, uh even if
it benefits potentially
disproportionately the upper leg of the
K, which is what we saw after the
financial after the uh pandemic, or do
you keep REITs solid and potentially
damage the lower part of the K even
more? It is not a good choice to have to
make and yet this is where we are.
>> Not easy. Not easy at all. Equity
futures this morning on the up. We're
bouncing back by 0.4% with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahihara with more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. China made its biggest daily
purchase of US soybeans in two years,
signaling support for last month's trade
truce. President Trump says he still
wants China to speed up its buying even
as US soybeans trade at a premium to
Brazil's crop. Meanwhile, former
Treasury Secretary and Harvard President
Larry Summers has resigned from the
board of Open AI. Summers and the
startup released separate statements
after Congress released new emails
between Summers and the late disgraced
financier Jeffrey Epstein.
And Elon Musk's foundation gave away a
record $474 million in 2024 with the
vast majority going to entities he
controls. The bulk went to a STEM
focused nonprofit. He also gifted to
groups focused on healthcare, disaster
relief, and education. That's Bloomberg
Reef. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next, cashing in on AI.
>> There is going to be an incremental
degree of kind of skepticism and
scrutiny that's done on a lot of these
bond deals and transactions. Thinking
about, you know, what is the actual
useful life of the things that these
companies are investing in.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Ashok Matia
of Newberger Berman live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Live from New York. Welcome back.
Equities looked like this this morning
on the S&P 500 going into the opening
bow with firmer by 0.4% later on this
afternoon. Earnings from Nvidia and
Sylvanas this morning cashing in on AI.
>> The AI value chain is not only in the
tech sector. It spans across a lot of
sectors that are very capital intensive,
especially utility. There is going to be
an incremental degree of kind of
skepticism and scrutiny that's done on a
lot of these bond deals and
transactions. Thinking about, you know,
what is the actual useful life of the
things that these companies are
investing in, especially as a lot of
these bond deals are not just
concentrated in the front end of the
curve.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. In
global bond issuance surging as big tech
races to turn AI dreams into reality.
Ashoke barriia the CIO and global head
of fixed income and Newberger Berman
writing many issuers will are well
positioned to leverage AI advances to
deliver cost efficiency enhance
productivity and unlock potential growth
drivers. Ashoke joins us now for more.
Ashoke, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> We've seen a lot a lot of issuance from
some big big players. Is the market
starting to push back?
um a little bit but I think the
important like just to take a quick step
back I mean the the these AI
hyperscalers have been issuing about $30
billion of debt a year for the last 5 10
years in the last two to three months
they've issued 90 billion so in the
space of a couple of months we've done
triple the volume and it's hitting all
parts of the bond market it's hitting
corporates it's hitting uh asset backs
it's hitting the private markets now I
don't think the bond market is is
pushing back that much I mean Microsoft
credit spreads have moved from like 30
basis points to 60. And the reason for
this is that these companies have a ton
of free cash flow and very low leverage.
And even something that's in the news
about Oracle has widened from maybe 120
basis point credit spread to 180. So I
think there's a lot more noise and
concern about this than is being really
reflected in in credit spreads.
>> Index has changed over time. I I
remember more than a decade ago used to
talk with Lisa about it all the time.
High yield was all about energy. Things
change. This market's changing too. when
you start to see an industry take over
the issuance, the net new issuance, what
does that mean for how you trade and
invest in that market?
>> Well, it it's a great point because the
AI issuance at this pace, it'll become 5
to 7% of the the index. So it is going
to go from a very small component to
something meaningful. And I think you
know if if you look back like a big
investment cycle that is debt financed
with a lot of uncertainty about how the
winners uh turn out intermediate term
long-term that has a lot of risk for
bond bond holders because you know with
AI a lot of the the productivity and the
gains it's unclear if the hyperscalers
will get all of it. Will it go to other
parts of the value chain? Is this a
winner take all or is it will there be
multiple winners? But ultimately as bond
holders, the best we get back is par. So
we the bond holders are going to
ultimately absorb any downside in how
this is being financed while the gains
go to the winners and the equity
markets. And that's something I think
everyone's got to be very cognizant of.
>> Are you staying away from this debt?
>> Uh we are being pretty selective. So we
what we're trying to do is own things
that are on the balance sheet. So it is
corporate unsecured. We're trying to
avoid things that are highly structured
where, you know, some of these deals are
involve, you know, you're financing
chips, you're financing real estate,
you're financing the overall capital,
uh, the the cash flows of the
corporation. And we're trying to stay a
little bit more at the corporate cash
flow level and at the margin try to
avoid some of those other risks. um
right now
>> which raises the question of who's
getting the better deal, the public
corporate bond holders or all the
private debt investors who are investing
in some of these huge asset managers
that have taken an increasing footprint.
Brookfield this morning announcing a
hundred billion dollar in infrastructure
fund. I mean do you have a sense of
that?
>> I think this one is going to take a
while to play out because there you know
just a couple of the the quick you know
uncertainties about this. You know a lot
of this debt is 30 to 40 years. Chips
have a useful life of four years. Now,
there's an argument that those chips can
be valuable and cash flows longer. Uh
the plants, we're financing the
construction of these facilities. Well,
the facilities have use if you can get
energy and how that's all going to play
out. So, I think I I I you know, our
guess is that the structures, whether
it's held in public or private, will be
more determinative of the outcomes
longer term rather than this is public
good, private bad or vice versa.
>> We've had some market volatility over
the last few weeks. We haven't seen much
of an offset in the Treasury market. I
just wonder how you're thinking about
things. The front end of the curve
versus the long end tends to have been
pretty stable in this environment about
4.1%. Is that good news? Is that bad
news?
>> Uh I I think you know I think people are
looking at saying it's bad news, right?
The Treasury market can't rally on bad
news. Um but I think there's there's two
things going on. One is I do think some
of this this long-term debt issuance
that that's come up from, you know, from
the the hyperscalers is impacting
yields. The other is Japan, right? We we
still very you know if you look at the
global bond markets Japan is the one
that it continues to trade pretty weakly
so I think we need some stability there
but our view is you know the funds rate
is coming down whether it comes down to
3% 3 and a quarter 3 and a half it's
coming down and that will help stabilize
long-term yields
>> is Japan reanchoring the global bond
market bond your tire
>> yeah I I do think that is and that is a
theme that has been there for the last
12 to 24 months and it is it is not
going away I mean Japan just exports so
much capital and that Japanese buyer who
is looking at can I buy JGBs or can I
come to the US or come to Europe that's
a decision they're making every day and
we have to be more attractive if JGBs
keep
>> going to see if that great repatriation
develops or not in the coming months and
years.
>> I love it. So if you're a Treasury buyer
just analyze Kaiichi's budget
>> and potentially the independence of the
Bank of Japan and you might have a clue
of which tenor to invest in in the US.
It's a tugof-war right now between risk
aversion on the one side and what's
happening in Japan and the additional
supply on the other side.
>> It just highlights how the 30-year
10-year really are international markets
and how difficult it is for the Fed to
get a control over this at a time when
the mortgage market really is hinged on
this key rate that is instrumental in
getting the housing market back up. I
mean, it's just sort of we're tying
ourselves in knots because frankly this
is a complicated backdrop and it's hard
for one entity to have too much control.
>> It's not going to get easier. Not
anytime soon. A good to see you.
>> No, great. It's been too long, sir. It's
great to see you in person. It's great
to be back uh back here in person. Thank
you. A show via there of Newberger
Burman. Coming up, Alicia Lavine of BMY,
Beth Kindig of the IO Fund, and Aaron
McLolin at the conference board. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance is
up next.
the data center and AI buildout is going
to be extremely expensive. That's
starting to weigh on the market a little
bit.
>> There is an expectation that we'll start
to see a leveling out in MAG 7 earnings
growth rates.
>> I still think there's probably some room
to see more pullback.
>> New leadership can emerge or at least
challenge some of these tech leaders and
that to me is a very healthy stock
market.
>> 6 12 months ago the fundamentals looked
better. We're more on bubble watch than
bubble call.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveyed starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Equity
futures positive by a third of 1% on the
S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, up by 0.4.
Similar move on the Russell following a
4-day slide. Equities bounced just a
little bit. The numbers from Target this
morning, not great. Tomorrow, Walmart
later on this afternoon, the big one,
the weight of this market on the
shoulders of Nvidia. Nvidia reporting
after the closing bell.
>> Yeah. And already has lost more than
$600 billion of market capitalization
since the end of October when it saw its
peak. And this comes as people are not
rewarding the idea of spending more
without showing the results. And that
really is the key. Can Nvidia show that
this spend is consistent and proving out
to be beneficial to the companies that
actually are buying these chips and can
actually see a return on their those
chips before they become obsolete
because they're used up.
>> The stock is up by 1.5% of the
pre-market later on this afternoon
following those numbers. Don't miss this
conversation. Jensen One catching up
with Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo 6:30 p.m.
Eastern time. A mustwatch conversation.
This market has shifted. It's a big
change. There was another deal announced
yesterday and you and I have been
talking about it through this morning.
Anthropic Microsoft Nvidia coming out
and saying, "We're getting together.
I'll spend here, you spend there, we'll
all make money. Fantastic. Move on."
This market sold Microsoft, sold Nvidia.
That's new. That's not what we saw
taking place a month or so ago.
>> Yet, fears of circular financing seem to
have taken on a life of their own. This
idea that they're all sort of hinging on
one another's success. We saw that with
OpenAI as well as uh Oracle. and the
potential tie-up there has also led to
some skepticism about exactly what will
transpire. Nonetheless, I think
ultimately it comes down to companies
what they're saying about how they're
deploying AI, how transformational it
is, and what they can give in terms of
visibility to a pathway to a future that
we still cannot fully imagine. Is it
robotics as Nokia CEO is talking about?
Is it mobility? Is it public safety? Or
is it just making sure that your
spreadsheet is all dotted and and your
tees crossed in a more effective way? I
mean, but these are sort of the the
near-term and the long-term issues.
Target partnering with OpenAI also not
seeing the reward in the share price.
So, we just need to see a bigger
visibility into what that future looks
like.
>> Then once you get past Nvidia later on
this afternoon, tomorrow morning's a big
one. Payrolls and Walmart. If you want
some visibility on the US consumer right
now, develop some thoughts about what
the Fed might might not do on December
10th. Tomorrow morning, payrolls and
Walmart. The payrolls estimate in our
survey 54K.
>> Yeah. and watch the revisions too cuz
we're also probably going to get some
revisions to August and that could be
interesting as well in terms of getting
a backward look about where the labor
market was. Walmart might actually be
the greater tell though and it might not
even be in the results but in the
rhetoric that the new CEO talks about
the outgoing CEO I should say he's not
going to be uh the ex CEO until January.
But there is a question here about
whether Target is representative of the
softness or whether this is Walmart
eating Target's lunch. And that's what
we'll find out tomorrow. Equity futures
this morning firmer by a third of 1%.
Coming up this hour, Alicia Lavine of
BMY as stocks look to avoid a 5-day
losing streak. Beth Kindig of IO Fund as
Wall Street braces for Nvidia's
earnings. And Aaron McLolin of the
Conference Board looking ahead to the
long-awwaited payrolls report. We begin
this hour with stock and recovery as
tech concerns continue to weigh on
equity markets worldwide. Alicia Lavine
of BMY Wealth writing, "We do not
anticipate macro downside and so expect
the market to rally into year end. The
risk is to the upside from here. Alicia
joins us now for more. Alicia, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Said that last time. What's gone wrong
in the last few weeks?
>> Well, I don't think anything's gone
wrong yet. I mean, if you think about
it, the S&P is off about 5%. Really,
it's the tech stocks that took the hit.
But what's interesting, we talked about
how high the multiple was in the S&P at
23 times. We're now at 21 times. So, the
market's done a little bit of work here
to take some of the froth out. In the
end, we're always looking forward for
our client portfolios 12 to 18 months
forward. We think this will be a viable
moment where it ends. There's going to
be as you said the next 24 hours gets to
all the issues gets to the earnings the
spending the depreciation issue on how
the P&L is being managed for all these
tech companies which has come up in the
last week as well as what's happening
with the labor market as well as what's
happening with the lower-end consumer.
So you're getting all these all these
issues answered in 24 hours. And I just
think that market participants did not
want to carry risk into this. It's just
too big because you are getting the
macro story as well as like the micro of
what's going on with this particular
trade that has driven the market for the
last 18 months.
>> So Alicia, let's unpack some of that. So
we've got a big morning tomorrow,
Walmart, and we've got jobs as well. So
that should give you some indication, a
little bit at least, of what the Fed
might do next month. I want to sit on
Nvidia as a company and as a stock. As a
company, the earnings should be pretty
good because we've heard from their
biggest customers and their biggest
customers want to spend more and keep
spending more. So, I've got that sorted.
As a stock, there's an attitude shift
that's developed in this market. The
things we used to rally on, we don't
rally on anymore. What's behind that?
And why do you see it changing? So look
the big difference here and I and you
know I can't talk about particular
companies but this is a theoretical this
is a you know just the entire market
itself
>> the entire market itself
>> is that the debt financing versus
financing from equity or financing from
cash flow is the biggest change and it
does introduce a different risk metric.
So to me, it does make sense that you're
bringing the multiples in a little bit
simply because if you're debt financing,
that is a different kettle of fish. In
the end, we've talked about how the
margins are so high, how the cash flow
margins are so high, particularly for
this sector, that it's able to sustain
higher multiples. If that is the case,
that in this new world, you're going to
compress some multiples here if there's
debt financing. So that's the big the
big change here. um the tech sector um
as a as a standalone has already dropped
you know two turns of multiple as well
from 31 times to 29 times. So there's
been a lot of work done here. I think
it's a reset because I think we're in
early innings of this. I also think it's
healthy that there are larger questions
asked if as we look forward we expect
consumer stimulus coming from the tax
code February, March and April as
refunds to households the lower end
households. I think you're getting going
to get a broadening out here in part
because of the questions about how this
money is actually getting spent and in
the end as we know from 25 years ago
there are winners and losers. We've not
asked ourselves that question as a
market as a market and it's almost
impossible to know. It's impossible to
know. Um so you know the companies that
are the do you know the behemoths today
were like you know a gleam in an eye of
some college kid in a basement you know
back in the late 90s. So that is it's
hard to know how this is going to get
monetized. But the questions are being
asked. I think the questions are good
questions. You don't want a straight
upward move in the market. So this I
think is healthier.
>> Although as an investor, if we're in the
early stages, how do you pick the
winners for even the mid-stages, right?
And it sort of goes to the heart of do
you just hunker down with the big tech
names that are the big tech names today
and generating cash or do you bet on the
evolution of AI to the rest of the
index, the idea of other potential
winners in this potential race. So I
think part of what we're seeing here is
that evolution from sort of the picks
and shovels and the direct beneficiaries
to implementation into business strategy
and you're starting to see it in some of
the industrials and you're even starting
to see it in the hyperscalers like if
you just look at some of the revenue per
employee for some of the hyperscalers
it's gone remarkably higher since chat
GPT was released. So there's already
implementation. The market is going to
start picking the winners and losers in
the other 493 and that's what we're
going to see. That is a healthier place
to be. Um if you're if you're changing
your business model, what we know is
that the overall margin for the S&P
continues to march higher separate from
the top seven stocks. That means
productivity is increasing and it's
likely because there is AI being used
across the value chain in many many
companies whether you know if there's
data as part of the company it's being
used
>> well one thing that people keep saying
is that all of this is predicated on
enough energy to power it and
increasingly a lot of uh the
hyperscalers are realizing oh no we
don't have that so we have to come up
with a backdoor way off the grid to try
to power our sites I just wonder at what
point you can invest in the energy
sector or whether it's hamstrung between
policy and politics between Saudi Arabia
and President Trump and the potential
agreements on oil,
>> right? So, look, there are no accidents
here, right? I mean, I think that part
of the new administration, well, that's
not new anymore, but part of the Trump
administration's policy was to keep a
lid on energy prices, and that is
exactly what's happened. We're sitting
at $60 on WTI, 64 on Brent. That's
exactly what the policy has been. And I
think it's no surprise that bring energy
down to drive all of the innovation. In
the end it is a competition with our you
know adversaries out there and so this
is part of the plan. Um there will be
questions asked along the way. You know
you know the expression is um uh wiser
but sadder sadder but wiser. We are
wiser about technological innovation
than 25 years ago. We understand there
are bumps along the way. What I see is a
remarkably resilient corporate sector.
The productivity is going across all
sectors. We will see it. The margins are
higher and so we can ask questions about
debt financing on the top seven stocks.
We got 493 that can also power the
market. And I think you're we you know
as a business we are raising our
earnings estimates for next year and for
the following year um into this. So we
believe in the productivity. We see it
we see it in earnings estimates. Yes.
Some sectors are coming down like like
communication services because of the
spending of some of the hyperscalers but
overall we're raising estimates. Do you
think there's some scarring from com
that the issues that we saw then have
conditioned a certain group of
investors?
>> 100%. The way we've had scarring from
GFC, right? Like there's scarring there
about, you know, is this a bubble? Well,
we're up 100%. It's not, you know, a
colleague of mine sent me a bunch of
charts on like what previous bubbles
look like. We're just like a tiny little
speck, you know, right? the the
appreciation in the market and the
particular companies at the at the at
the heart of this are actually
exhibiting a shallow rise in compared to
what we know were bubbles in the past.
We think we're actually early to mid
innings of this and there's a way to go.
The fact that the market appreciated for
six months in a row, 7% in the third
quarter, and we're quivering over a 5%
down draw just tells you how great a
year it's been. And you know, there was
broadening out. And I think look, we
have to get the Fed question also like
is the Fed going to cut?
>> I think the chair has been very careful
to keep the probabilities at 5050 even
though we've had hawkish comments. The
market's not pricing in anything less
than 5050 on the chances of a cut and
that's done for a reason because they
want optionality to cut.
>> Let's finish on this. What's a good
number tomorrow morning on payrolls? I
can tell you the estimate in our survey
it's 54. What's a good number for this
month?
>> I I think anything over 50 is fine,
right? Because the tw the three-month
rolling average is 29 and that's pretty
awful. So anything that pull So I think
50 is fine. um that will change the
probability of whether we get a a cut or
not also. Yeah.
>> In December, I think overall you'd
rather see a stronger economy and a
better labor market.
>> So I think that's important. I think
Nvidia, you know, we'll have to see what
the earnings are, but like you said, the
hyperscalers are spending. So that's I I
think more knowable than not. And then
ultimately for the largest retailer on
Earth, you know, half of the American
population is a customer. So we'll see
what half of America is doing
>> and the other half thinks that group won
at the airport. That's the US economy
right now. Alicia Lavine of BMY Worth.
Alicia, thank you.
>> Great to appreciate it. Thank you very
much. Looking ahead to payrolls
tomorrow. 54K the estimate. Bremo. The
high's 105. The low 25.
>> Yeah. And pick your narrative in terms
of how to interpret it. I'm still stuck
on what Alicia said about sadder but
wiser. And I want to just say that this
time is different also than do
>> and wiser but sadder.
>> And wiser but sadder because in the dot
bubble, people were excited about the
technology. They were excited about the
internet. People are less excited about
artificial intelligence and that is
different and there have been surveys
showing that people are skeptical and
they're worried they're going to lose
their jobs because a lot of these
efficiency gains come at the behest of
jobs is a different tone around the sort
of trepidation that people have about
the robots.
>> You can replace people and the word they
with I in a lot of those senses. I feel
the same way sometimes.
>> But actually surveys have shown that
you're not alone. A majority of people
feel this way toward artificial
intelligence. There is a PR war to be
had if it is a PR war or at least some
kind of way to combat it where people
can get a little more excited.
>> Not alone. Feels like therapy.
>> Yeah, you're not alone.
>> It's beautiful. Thanks, Lisa. Thank you.
>> Sadder but wiser.
>> We can hold hands in a commercial break.
All right. Sadder, wiser, wiser, sadder.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's your Hierra. Heyra.
>> Hi, John. Shares of TJX are rising 2.8%
in the pre-market. The discount retailer
boosting its fiscal year outlook after
third quarter sales came in above
estimates. The results signaling that US
shoppers are becoming more frugal as the
economy shows signs of stress.
Meanwhile, New York Police Commissioner
Jessica Tish is accepting Mayor Elect
Zoran Mdani's offer to stay on the job.
The police executive is staying on after
several conversations with Mumdani.
Mdani's team praised Tish and the drop
in crime under her leadership.
And in sports, Roger Federer was elected
to the International Tennis Hall of
Fame. This was Federer's first year of
eligibility to be nominated and he was
the only candidate with enough support
in the player category to join the 2026
class. Federer is the first man to win
20 Grand Slam singles titles. Dutchburg
brief John,
>> that was inevitable. Yhara, thank you.
Appreciate it. Up next, the morning
calls plus Beth Kick of IO Fund as Wall
Street braces for Nvidia's latest
earnings report. That's next. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
You cannot get away from the comparisons
to the late 1990s. A lot of the buildout
was financed by companies that were
incurring debt and had no revenues on
the other side. And because you've seen
this uh accelerating debt issuance, um
there is the worry that that is coming
back and and we would say that's
actually a good rational worry.
>> That comparison just keeps coming up.
That was Julian Emanuel of Evercore on
the program a little bit earlier on this
morning. If you're just tuning in,
welcome to the program. Off the back of
a 4-day slide on the S&P, we bounced
back by just 210 of 1% on the S&P 500.
On the NASDAQ 100, up by 0.3. As we cut
you down to that cash open, let's get
you some morning calls. First up,
Guggenheim raising its price target on
McDonald's to 310, seeing strong same
store sales growth in the US. Elsewhere,
Wells Fargo lowering its price target on
Home Depot to 400, noting Q4 appears off
to a rough start after the company
reporting earnings in the last 24 hours.
And finally, Jeffre upgrading Door Dash
to buy, believing the company's
execution and growth algorithm are
underappreciated. The stock is up by
2.4%. Let's stay on tech. All eyes on
Nvidia earnings today as companies pour
billions of dollars into artificial
intelligence. analyst expecting the AI
giant to show more than 50% growth in
net income and revenue in the third
quarter. Bloomberg's Ed Lello will be
catching up with Jensen Wang later on
this evening. Ed, looking forward to
that, buddy. What's top of mind for you
today?
>> Yeah, it's a very simple equation
whereby if they're going to hit more
than 50% revenue growth, net income
growth, they
>> I think we've lost the connection with
Edlo from our own office. in fact, which
is bizarre. So, we'll try and sort that
out in just a few seconds or so. We
talked about the difference between the
company and the stock. The company
should be okay because the earnings of
their biggest customers have been great
and their biggest customers are looking
to spend more. Now, with that, the stock
and it's been treated by this market.
That's been a change over the past few
weeks.
>> Well, it was a meteoric rise up and now
there's a bit of a sort of blowoff top.
There's a question here about long-term
how much companies are going to be
willing to potentially continue to buy
chips and upgrade at the same pace going
forward if the gains are so great. So
the forward look in terms of what the
sort of runway is for the upgrade cycle
for Nvidia might be really important in
terms of uh some of the rhetoric.
>> We can't reconnect with Ed, so I'm just
going to say it for him. 6:30 Eastern
time later on this evening. Don't miss
the conversation with Ed Ledllo and the
Nvidia boss, the CEO, Jensen Wang coming
up on Bloomberg TV later on this evening
following those earnings. Beth Kindig is
the lead technology analyst of the IO
fund which since starting in 2020 has
outperformed the S&P 500 by more than
100%.
Beth writing, "Nvidia has no debt or
cash flow issues in funding its AI
roadmap. Unlike big tech with large
capex bills, the market hasn't fully
factored this in yet." Beth joins us now
for more. Beth, welcome to the program.
We've got the stock and we've got the
company. I want to focus on the company.
This should be quite straightforward,
shouldn't it? After we've already heard
from their biggest customers and they're
looking to spend and keep on spending.
>> That's a great point. Uh thanks again
for having me. Big tech capex, you
cannot underestimate the importance of
that number. Uh we're seeing 19%
quarterover growth. Now this is at
scale. These are large numbers to be
growing nearly 20% quarter over quarter.
our largest growth this year in big tech
capex. It's communicating and
foreshadowing what we will see from
Nvidia this evening.
>> Beth, how this market treats this stock
has shifted. How this market treats this
story has changed. I think yesterday's a
really interesting example that
Microsoft Anthropic Nvidia come out and
announce a deal, an agreement to invest
in each other and all make money and
everything's going to be fine. And we've
seen those kind of agreements before and
the stocks would typically rally. Beth,
they didn't yesterday. Have you noted a
change in the reaction function of this
market to incoming information and why
do you think that's going to change
anytime soon?
>> The market is emo the market is
emotional. It's sentiment driven.
However, for years now, I have
encouraged investors to look at Nvidia
according to its GPU generations. You
had uh AMP here, you had Hopper with our
big moment in, you know, a couple years
back. We're moving into the Blackwell
Reuben cycle. uh Jensen Wong gave an
incredible statement when he said there
would be 500 billion cumulative revenue.
Now what my company has modeled is that
means we will end next year in the 300
billion to 320 billion data center mark.
Now stay with me. We have been forced to
update our models. I originally had a 10
trillion market cap by 2030. I am now
raising that to a 20 trillion market cap
by 2030. Therefore, I am not concerned
as to how the market feels from day to
day. The long-term road map is laid out,
the product roadmap and the vision as to
how this this uh data center revenue
will continue to grow could not be more
perfectly handed to investors than what
we've seen over the last month.
>> Beth, if the revenue is so sustainable,
why does Nvidia have to give money to so
many of its clients to buy its chips?
That's a great question and I would look
at it less as this big dot worry and I
would look at it more as an exercise of
R&D. Uh we have a common denominator
which happens to be Nvidia's GPUs. We
want Nvidia to work alongside the R&D
labs and big tech and make sure that
America remains competitive. I would not
look at this as some big concern that
everyone's depending on each other. I
would look at it as a race to try to be
in the lead and that piece is something
that all AI investors should want and I
believe it will continue on an upward
investable trajectory which is very
different than those who have concerns.
>> Well, it does raise a question though
and it's not just the US companies. We
were just speaking with Nokia earlier
and they have also a partnership with
Nvidia. I just wonder at what point do
all these companies become so
intertwined that if there is a wink weak
link it will have ripple effects that
are much more substantial than many
people appreciate.
What I would argue back is that AI is
very early. So investors have this
incredible opportunity to get in early.
Usually that happens at the venture
capital stage. So you see, you know, all
of this these startups trying to bring
uh, you know, a a technology to the
market. Instead, because AI is so
incredibly expensive at at the onset,
public investors have an opportunity to
get in early. What we're seeing, in my
opinion, is very normal for early stage
technology. And my company has done
quite well by positioning with the picks
and shovels trade. And that piece has so
far paid off in spades. I expect it to
continue to pay off. And you know what?
Come on. Big tech has a lot of cash.
It's it's not going to run out of cash.
The the companies spending all of this
capex, they're they're pretty they're
pretty um you know, cashefficient
companies. I don't have a huge concern
as to big tech running out of cash
anytime soon.
>> Beth, appreciate the update from you.
Beth Kendig there of the IO fund. Big
tech super strong balance sheets.
They're the one issuing the debt.
Totally wither on that. We'd all agree.
We've been asking a question though. Is
this story built on that or built on
Open AI where things are a little bit
more flaky compared relative to the
strength of those balance sheets
elsewhere?
>> And is Nvidia leveraged the idea of an
eruption in technological prowess and
advancement that it needs to also fund
because nobody else can. How much are
they going to be sort of instrumental in
the money and the purse behind any kind
of advancement that people are hoping to
achieve?
>> Nvidia high this morning in the
pre-market by 1.7%. Coming up, Aaron
McLolin at the Conference Board as we
look ahead to a long awaited jobs report
tomorrow morning from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> 4% correction on the S&P 500. Can we
call it a 4% correction? It feels like
it it feels like a 4% depression
compared to the way some people talk
about
>> spoil up and to the right since the lows
of April. 4% move and it feels pretty
depressing at the index level.
>> It was more than that though for some
names and I think that that's a reason
why people who have invested heavily in
tech are taking it on the chin and
you're seeing the NASDAQ underperform
the S&P 500 in the equal weight almost
by twice as much over the past uh
frankly since the start of November.
Nvidia in the pre-market this morning
doing a little bit better, but over the
past few weeks we've had a correction of
more than 10% on that name. Down about
12% going into that earnings report
later on this afternoon. Equities doing
better so far this morning though as we
count you to the opening bell about 60
minutes away. Let's get you some morning
movers with Danny Burger. Danny has
more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some of the retailer earnings
we got this morning. Target was was
among them down 3% in the pre-market
trade. uh reporting results that
disappointed, having to trim some of the
high end of its expectations. The fear
is is that this turnaround that they've
been trying to engineer is taking longer
than expect. So, not only are the
results not showing up, but they're
having to invest more money for that
turnaround, too. $5 billion is their
capital expenditure target, saying that
they are going to do things like build
more stores, invest in the stores that
already exist, invest in merchandise.
So, again, those shares moving lower.
Some of the other retailers we heard
from this morning include TJX. Maybe a
bad sign that this company is doing
well. It sells a lot of discounted
clothes and they beat expectations. They
also raised what they see as comparable
sales for the year. So those shares
trading up 3%. Finally ending with a
little bit of deal news. Adobe will be
purchasing the AI and uh marketing uh uh
company SEMrush for about $1.9 billion.
The price tag on that will put it at $12
a share. So you can see the premium
starting to lift shares of of SEMr Rush
by about 75 just under 75% and this is
Adobee's first deal uh since the failed
attempted takeover of Figma. So that
moving the shares higher this morning
John
>> Danny appreciate it. Thanks for the
update. TJX so far this year high up by
more than 20%. It's one of those names.
It's like Walmart, right? If it's doing
badly, it must be really really bad. And
if it's doing well, it must be bad.
Exactly. You know, and that's the game
we'll play tomorrow. That's the story
that we're playing right now because TJX
is viewed as doing well because people
are looking for discounted clothes. How
much are people trading down and that's
going to be a big question with Walmart
I'm sure on the call tomorrow.
>> Walmart tomorrow and the jobs report as
well. Later on this afternoon we get
some Fed minutes. Bit of data just
moments ago. Let's get you an update and
cross over to Bloomberg's Mike McKe for
more. Morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. And it feels very
weird to be back in the chair talking
about data that has crossed, but we do
have the first data since the shutdown
ended and it is international trade for
September. The trade deficit falls to
59.6 billion. The estimate was for 60.8
and we were at uh 78.3
in July. Now this is old data in the yes
but category. it does matter because
it's basically the final piece of data
that uh analysts need to put together
the third quarter GDP report which is
going to be released in next week. So,
uh good news for the overall US economy
and kind of one headline out of this
imports from Canada in September were at
their lowest since May of 2021 and that
of course was during COVID. Uh we're not
getting along with Canada very well on a
trade basis these days. Now, as I
mentioned, GDP comes next week.
Tomorrow, we get the September jobs
report. Not sure how much that's going
to matter, but we will also get the
latest numbers on jobless claims from
last week. The Department of Labor is
not going to publish the missing numbers
between the start of the shutdown and
the uh num and the number that comes out
tomorrow, but they will put the data
online tomorrow afternoon. So, if you
want to go back and look at it yourself,
you can, but we'll get the latest
numbers and see where we are there. Uh,
real earnings Friday, not a big deal.
The September PPI comes out next Tuesday
and then we get that GDP number for the
third quarter and they're going to go
straight to the second version because
they've already skipped past the first.
Uh, that comes out Wednesday along with
income and spending for October. That's
going to be an important number for a
lot of people trying to calculate where
we are. Uh then we get November income
and spending on December 19th. We still
do not know the fate of October's jobs,
CPI, and PPI. The White House says
they're not coming out, but we haven't
heard that from the BLS. Uh jobs, CPI,
and PPI for November. We don't know when
those will come out, and we're still
waiting on the status of October and
November retail sales. But we get
started this morning with trade.
>> Mike, can I ask you about claims? You
mentioned jobless claims. Has that been
a reliable anchor to establish a view on
the health of the labor market or has it
been a misleading one? If you focused on
that, have you missed what's happened
elsewhere?
>> Well, from what we have seen, the data
that we've been able to download and u
adjust, uh we look like uh the theory
that everybody's had of a low fire
lowire economy. So, if we get something
in the 220 range tomorrow, that would
just confirm it. And it kind of gives
the Fed the idea that they have a good
idea of where the economy is, at least
in the labor market.
>> Mike McKay, thank you, sir. Mike down in
Washington following that trade data.
More data still to come. This could be
very noisy over the next few months.
Eron McLolin of the Conference Board
writing, "The shutdown's ripple effects
could shave roughly 0.5 percentage
points off of GDP growth in the quarter,
but most of it will likely be recovered
in the beginning of 2026." Aarin joins
us now for more. Erin, welcome to the
show. this Federal Reserve starved of
economic data. They'll finally get some.
How noisy is it going to be?
>> Well, I'm not really sure it will change
much since it's so backwardlooking and I
think similar to your other guest that
you had this morning, a lot of it will
be business as usual. As uh Mike just
said, low hire, low fire. I do think
that sort of the era of labor hoarding,
which we've seen over the last couple
years, is probably coming to a close.
How much have we already gleaned from
consumer confidence and from a sense
that people are not feeling good about
their prospects in the labor market? Can
you connect that to what's actually
going on in the ground or have you seen
a divergence between sentiment and the
reality to a degree that makes it
unreadable?
Well, the sentiment from our consumer
confident index has essentially been
very sideways moving. So, you know,
there's a little bits of change here and
there, but when you dig a little bit
deeper, what's really interesting is
that consumers feel relatively
optimistic. I mean, it's still pretty
low, you know, or compared to last year
or the year before. However, they're
pessimistic about their expectation for
6 months forward. And so, I think that
that's really really telling. The other
thing that we asked in our most um
recent survey was about holiday
spending, which obviously will be really
key for a lot of big companies. We're
still in a very consumerdriven economy.
And our surveyor said that they expect
to spend 4% less this holiday season
than they did last year. And I also
think that they will experience higher
prices. We saw inventories when we look
at trade data really up in the first
quarter of this year, but they were very
flat, you know, or lower than other
years. And so sort of pulling that
inventory earlier to save on tariffs and
being able to pass that down during the
holiday shopping season might not
happen. And so the combination of
increased prices and the expectation of
increased prices may result in just
lower spending. Erin, if people started
their day with a cheaper cup of coffee
and a cheaper banana, do you think that
they would spend more elsewhere?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So, is that affecting things?
>> Coffee is up 20 to 40% depending on the
kind of coffee you're purchasing. And
you know, it's really I've been focused
very much on trade at the conference
board this year. And it's very
interesting to look at these policies
and think about how overly broad they
were when these tariffs were enacted
because we only grow coffee in Hawaii,
right? We do not grow bananas. And so to
have to go back and revisit some of
these policies is really interesting.
And to pick up on um on what we were
just talking about with uh with Mike
McKe on Canada when I dove really deep
into trade data for this year after
China where trade is down about 19%. The
only other major trading partner that
we're down both imports and exports this
year is Canada where we're down about 3
or 4%. And so I think there's still that
continued uncertainty. The US MCA trade
agreement is not up for that
renegotiation until next summer. Our
agreement with China is, you know,
basically our truce is only for one
year. So for so many importers,
manufacturers and others, we still have
continued uncertainty.
>> Congressman French Hill made a similar
argument. Rammo earlier on this week,
the Republican from Arkansas, not a fan
of broad-based tariff, sympathetic with
the national security objectives of
doing certain things on certain
countries, but doing broad-based things
like this and hitting things like coffee
and then needing to backtrack kind of
undermines the decision to begin with
and the objective behind it,
>> which raises this issue going forward.
Are there other tariffs that are going
to be walked back? What does this mean
for the Supreme Court decision? Will
that be used as a smoke screen to walk
back serious parts of some of this uh
this initiative? And what does that mean
for the deficit? I know I sound like
such a ne negative Nelly, but you have
to wonder if people aren't counting the
idea that we're going to get revenue
from these tariffs. Is that revenue not
really countable given the fact that
potentially this will be rolled back?
>> Erin, we're running deficits of 6 to 7%
of GDP in this country. And this is
something that this administration has
inherited. I understand we can talk
about the trade story, but the mood of
the consumer was pretty dire before
President Trump walked into the White
House and that has continued. Erin,
what's behind that? And is there a
spread opening up between how the
consumer feels about this economy and
how businesses feel about this economy,
the companies that you track?
>> Yes, that's a great question. So we also
have our CE CEO quarterly uh survey that
we do and CEOs were so excited at the
beginning of the year essentially
because they were looking forward to
lower regulation and to sort of an
increasingly friendly business
environment. The terrorists have upended
some of that and the continued
uncertainty has upended some of that.
For consumers, I think a lot of their
malaise is really related to the really
big changes that we see that we don't we
can't predict or necessarily get excited
about, you know, in sort of thinking
about AI, for example, and really
understanding what jobs may be displaced
or in really understanding how they may
benefit or their families may benefit
that uncertainty has just increased.
things like the federal deficit. Most
consumers do not think about that when
it comes to their day-to-day or
month-to-month spending.
>> Aaron McLolin at the Conference Board.
Aaron, thank you. Fantastic to catch up
as always. It's good to see you. This is
an interesting situation for corporate
America to feel good about the future to
forecast better earnings and yet we look
at the labor market, employment growth
is so bad, and the way the consumer
feels about things is so dire. How are
we going to close that spread? Because I
tell you, for society to function
normally, for politicians to be
comfortable in the seats they've got,
that gap, that spread needs to close.
>> And this is the reason why the Fed is
talking about cutting rates. And I
understand that it they're not a
political body, although some people
might disagree, but there is this
feeling that that sentiment in the rank
and file of people who don't feel the
benefits that companies are talking
about are going to be more important or
sort of given the priority on the
Federal Reserve. You're right to point
this out because a lot of what companies
are saying, the optimism comes in their
creativity and innovation of becoming
more efficient, of doing more with less
and reaping more profits even if they
don't uh necessarily have the best
backdrop. And this is really a a
conundrum that's going to be a political
issue for a long time.
>> Futures this morning positive by about
0.2%. A big 24 hours coming up later on
this afternoon. Earnings from Nvidia
tomorrow. We'll get numbers from Walmart
and a much delayed payroll report.
September payrolls dropping on November
20th. What has been going on?
>> Yeah. And is it going to be useful at
that point? And that's the reason why I
keep saying maybe revisions to August
could be really important given the fact
that you get more of a trajectory
heading into October, which we're not
really going to get because it'll be
really messy and we're not going to get
an unemployment rate.
>> It's all good news. Other than that,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara with
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. China made its biggest daily
purchase of US soybeans in two years,
signaling support for last month's trade
truce. The USDA says Beijing bought
792,000 tons on Tuesday, taking total
purchases since October, above 1 million
tons. President Trump says he still
wants China to speed up its buying even
as US soybeans trade at a premium to
Brazil's.
Meanwhile, the Department of Energy is
backing Constellation Energy's restarts
of ThreeMile Island. The Trump
administration has lent the company $1
billion to restart the Pennsylvania
nuclear plant. Constellation unveiled
plans last year to start the plant
through a power purchase agreement with
Microsoft to support the company's data
centers.
And shares of Target are lower by three
and a half percent in the pre-market
after it lowered its profit forecast for
the year as a retailer deals with
markdowns and soft demand in key areas.
The incoming CEO said Target experienced
choppiness across its business during
the quarter and that it's been difficult
to pinpoint specific drivers for the
softness. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update
and thanks for this morning. Up next,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, we'll catch up with Zack Griffith
of Credit Sites. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
the Federal Reserve, just like markets
and economists, are going to have to
think a little bit further out into what
Q1 and Q2 are going to look like. And
probably uh that tells us that
employment will become slightly more
problematic, not dramatically, and
inflation will continue to rise. It's a
continuation of that stagflation light
type of environment.
>> Francis Donald of RBC. Stag light sounds
like a really bad drink, doesn't it? I
remember the first time I heard that
stack light, but ultimately that's what
she's looking for in 26.
>> It's a stag dance where you don't get a
dance essentially, right? I mean, it's
sort of Yeah, this is kind of what we're
at. But we don't get the CPI data, so we
can't even know how stag it is. Just
light.
>> Stag light. A terrible night out. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by a quarter
of 1% right now. We're up by a third on
the NASDAQ. On the Russell, we're up by
0.4. In the bond market, Treasury
shaping up as follows into tomorrow.
Yields down at the front end of the
curve, 356. It has been a snooze at the
front end of the curb anywhere between
350 and 360. Why? Because this Fed is
just totally gridlocked. What is going
to break the gridlock? If you can work
that out, you can work out which way
this one's going to cut, which way this
is going to break in the months to come.
>> Yeah. And potentially what the rhetoric
is going to be going forward because it
seems like the last time was clearly a
hawkish cut. There was a signal that Jay
Powell put to the whole market which is
this is a split committee and December
is not a certainty. We've gotten that
pricing in. How much can they give
guidance going forward given the fact
that there's going to be a real
composition shift to the Federal Reserve
>> and a new leader at the top of that
Federal Reserve. A politically correct
leader at the top of that Federal
Reserve.
>> What does that mean? I don't like I
>> To me, that's Governor Waller. We talked
about this.
>> To me, that's Governor Waller,
>> but you are not President Trump. So,
>> I know. So, I I I can't get in his mind.
>> I mean, you could try. What do you think
it is?
>> That would lead me to believe it's
Hasset.
>> Yeah, that's kind
Well, that's that's what the market's
pricing in right now. The greatest
chance would be Kevin Hasset as a new
venture.
>> He's the favorite. Politically correct?
I don't know. Like to who? That's up the
up to the president. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 doing okay. Yields down by
about a basis point. Big week coming up.
Big few days coming up. This is the
trading diary. This is what things look
like. So later on this afternoon at
12:00 p.m. Eastern time, President
Donald Trump will be speaking at the US
Saudi Investment Forum in Washington. At
2 p.m. Eastern time, the Fed meeting
minutes. Then after the closing bow, the
big one, Nvidia earnings followed by an
exclusive conversation with the CEO
Jensen Wang at 6:30 Eastern time on
Thursday. So tomorrow morning, a delayed
payrolls report, jobless claims and
Walmart earnings and for good measure
into the weekend. Yumich consumer
sentiment. All of this some new data for
the Federal Reserve. Zachary Griffiths,
the head of USIG and macro strategy at
credit size is still expected a cut in
December. We expect continued labor
market weakness to produce demand-driven
disinflation leading to the need for
more aggressive easing. Zach joins us
now for more. Zack, welcome back. Always
good to catch up. What does aggressive
easing mean? How many cuts is that?
>> Thanks, John. So, right now we have a
cut in December and we're looking for
three more in 2026. But what I think is
more interesting is our expectation for
the market to price in a terminal rate
that's lower than what we currently see
in sofa futures. So we think the Fed
could ultimately cut to 2.5 1/2% but it
may be a bumpy path in terms of what the
indicators tell us about the balance of
labor market and inflation to us we are
expecting more labor market weakness to
lead inflation lower and to allow the
Fed to deliver more rate cuts and what
we think is going to be a much more
challenged consumer environment in 2026.
I think we've gotten very used to a
consumer that's been very resilient and
surprised to the upside. you think that
comes to an end in 2026?
>> And Zach, why are you seeing this in
particular? Because ultimately the
corporate earnings, while they haven't
always beat expectations, they've been
okay. And they point to, yes, some
potential softening, but not exactly
softness. What do you think we're
getting wrong about just how weak the
consumer is?
>> I think the big thing, Lisa, is going to
come down to the labor market. If we
actually see job losses and we have seen
more announcements of layoffs, that's
going to be the key to the scenario that
drives actual consumer weakness. I think
throughout all of this, we've heard
excess savings have fallen. We've heard
consumers exhibiting valueoriented
behavior, but we really haven't seen the
downshift yet. And it's because we
haven't seen material job losses. I
think we can see net monthly job losses
at various points over the next year or
two. And I think that's going to drive
more weakness in the consumer. I think
as long as they have a job and are
continuing to earn, you can keep
spending, but once you start to see
cracks there, it kind of drives the
entire economy toward a slowing to below
potential growth next year.
>> How frustrating is it, Zach, to have
this call to go into duration at the
expectation of what you say potentially?
We could see that and the long end could
still sell off and we see yields go
higher because of Japan. I mean, how
much is this a story that you can really
just uh specifically focus on the US
economy as you try to get it right?
>> You're right, Lisa. It's certainly a a
global market and when we think about
going forward what's going to be more
important. I think that the expectation
that the Fed can deliver more in terms
of rate cuts than the market is
currently priced for is a big one and
and of course the Fed also we think
could be adding to its balance sheet as
soon as as early 2026. So, I think those
are two big factors. They can't
completely offset what we're seeing
globally, which I think is growing
fiscal concerns, the potential for the
Bank of Japan to be hiking rates. So,
it's not a one-way trade. And I think
that's really what the Fed has been
trying to communicate. The market had
gotten very comfortable with kind of one
direct path toward lower rates on the
magnitude of 100 basis points getting to
around 3%. They've called that into
question. On the inflation side, we
ultimately think that the labor market's
going to deteriorate further and cause
their focus to shift there while also
causing disinflation. So, I think you
have the monetary policy side in the US
as the key driver. You have the curve
steepening and yields moving lower
across the curve.
>> Zach, you said some things there and I
heard QE. Did you mean to say QE?
>> Not QE necessarily, John, but the
balance sheet growing to accommodate
growth in the liability side of the
balance sheet. So, we're not calling for
quantitative easing. We're not calling
for a recession, but we are calling for
a more notable downshift in economic
growth than what we think the market is
priced for and what the consensus is.
And so, to us, that means moving into
long duration for total return focused
investors. For excess return focused
investors, we think it could be a more
challenging environment. We prefer
moving up in quality and shorter in
duration for those f focused on spread
as we think we could see decompression
across the ratings curve and a
steepening of the spread curve. Is that
just stay on credit just for a beat? A
question I wouldn't typically ask you.
How important are the earnings from
Nvidia later on this afternoon to your
universe to investment grade corporate
credit in America?
>> That's a great question, John, and I
think it's huge for sentiment broadly
when you think about risk sentiment for
equities and and even credit perhaps to
a lesser extent. When I think about what
is going to drive the credit market from
a broadly tech perspective going
forward, right now tech makes up around
six 7% of the investment grade index.
Our analysts are calling for issuance
next year, tech to compose 20% of that.
And so I think really when we think
about balancing technicals and
fundamentals, we think the tech side of
the ledger becomes more of a technical
and fundamental headwind as Oracle we
expect may need to come with as much as
85 billion in new debt over the next 2
to 3 years. So to me I think earnings
are important but looking at how much of
this future capex will be debt funded is
kind of the key and a driver of our more
cautious view toward fundamentals in IG
credit in 2026. Zach, thank you sir.
Well framed Zachary Griffiths there of
credit sites. This market's changing.
The way these companies operate is
changing. The way credit trades is
changing. What compiles these index is
changing. There's a lot to track here.
It's all changing.
>> Yeah. And the terms are changing too
because it's not quantitative easing
anymore. It's balance sheet expansion.
It's not shadow banking. It's now
private investing. So we have new terms
to go along with a very different
market.
>> Did you hear QE?
>> I mean, no. I heard balance sheet
expansion to accommodate different
liabilities.
which is a different flavor.
>> It's a different
>> which is not quantitative easing. John,
>> coming up tomorrow, Brian Levit of
Invesco, Angela Zenino of CFR, Sema Sha
of Principal Asset Management, Sarah
Malik of New, and a whole lot more.
Nvidia earnings after the close, don't
miss Ed's interview with Jens Wang of
Nvidia at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time from
New York City. From us, good morning to
you all. Have a wonderful day. We'll see
you tomorrow morning. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.